Title
Govt has launched national plan for conservation of migratory birds: Minister 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/govt-has-launched-national-plan-for-conservation-of-migratory-birds-minister/articleshow/67196119.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 18:54 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The government has launched a national action plan for conservation of migratory birds along the Central Asian Flyway which emphasizes on coordinated efforts by all relevant stakeholders in conservation of the winged species, the Lok Sabha was told Friday. Minister of State for Environment Mahesh Sharma said the plan has been developed to ensure healthy populations of the migratory species in India. 


Replying to another question, he said studies have indicated that some migratory bird were showing a decreasing trend. 

According to reports, the Central Asian Flyway (CAF) covers a large continental area of Eurasia between the Arctic and Indian Oceans and the associated island chains. 

The flyway comprises several important migration routes of waterbirds, most of which extend from the northernmost breeding grounds in the Russian Federation (Siberia) to the southernmost non-breeding (wintering) grounds in west and south Asia, the Maldives and the British Indian Ocean Territory. 

"The Environment Ministry has launched the 'National Action Plan for conservation of migratory birds along the Central Asian Flyway'. The Action Plan emphasizes on coordinated efforts of all relevant stakeholders in conservation of migratory birds," Sharma said. 

India provides a critical stopover as well as a wintering habitat to more than 370 species of migratory birds, he said, adding that the action plan has been prepared for a period of five years. 

The 20 species of migratory birds which have been prioritised under the National Central Asian Flyway Action Plan include the Eurasian Curlew, Crab Plover, Black-tailed Godwit, Bar-tailed Godwit and the Red Knot, among others, Sharma said. 

Replying to another question, the minister said migratory species were omnipotent in nature and were found in protected as well as non-protected areas, both urban and rural. 

The winter visitors arrive in India by October and stay till March or April. The summer migrants start coming from mid-March and stay till August. 

"Although there is no specific assessment conducted by the ministry with respect to population of migratory birds visiting India recently, assessments by Wetlands International in the past indicated that some migratory bird showed a decreasing trend, whereas some species indicated a stable population," he said.
.