Title
BJP, LJP likely to strike seat sharing deal today 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/bjp-ljp-likely-to-strike-seat-sharing-deal-today/articleshow/67186246.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 08:37 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Two days after ally LJP expressed its unease over Bihar seat sharing for the Lok Sabha polls, BJP chief Amit Shah met LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan amid indications that the saffron party is open to discussing an enhanced share for its coalition partner and the latter may be amenable to settle for an improved deal.


While BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said the alliance was intact, LJP was reticent in contrast. But privately its leaders have hinted that talks have cleared the air and LJP will remain in the NDA. “There will be another meeting on Friday and the deal is likely to be announced”, a source in the LJP said.

Earlier on Thursday, the discussions between Shah and the LJP leader, his son Chirag and brother Pashupati Nath went off well and the partners agreed on a seat-sharing formula for Bihar, said Yadav, who was also present at the meeting held at the BJP chief’s residence.

LJP caused a flutter in the NDA camp after Chirag Paswan issued a statement expressing unhappiness that BJP is not attending matters involving its partners. Coinciding with the exit of RLSP leader Upendra Kushwaha from the NDA, the remarks were read as hard bargaining as seats allotted to Kushwaha fell vacant.

With Kushwaha promptly joining the UPA on Thursday, the focus on LJP grew sharper with Paswan’s moves being seen as a possible indicator of his preparedness to jump ship. It is understood that LJP could get six seats which it holds currently, in addition to a Rajya Sabha nomination for Paswan senior.

The re-entry of JD(U) in NDA meant reduced seats for all partners and LJP was reconciled to the situation until Kushwaha left. The LJP now feels the two seats allotted to Kushwaha should fall into its kitty, and this has led to the fresh jockeying by BJP’s partner who sees a possibility for additional seats.

Chirag had created a small storm on Tuesday evening when he tweeted saying BJP needed to address concerns of its allies before it was too late and to avoid any further loss (of partners).

LJP couched its unhappiness by saying BJP “digressing” from issues of development and giving priority to Ram temple over issues of farmers and youth was a cause of worry. He had also praised the performance of Congress president Rahul Gandhi for his party’s show in three states.

It is understood that a day after BJP losses in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Chirag Paswan had shot a letter to Jaitley seeking details of the “benefits of demonetisation” after two years.

The letter, which was also marked to PM Narendra Modi, mentioned how people stood with Modi’s decision with the hope it would result in financial gain and to end black money in the country. Chirag had claimed that he would like to share the positive impacts of demonetisation when he interacts with the electorate before Lok sabha election.


.