Title
‘Post-Urjit, not difficult for govt to manage markets’ 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/post-urjit-not-difficult-for-govt-to-manage-markets/articleshow/67186245.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 05:43 IST

Text
Former finance minister Yashwant Sinha has been a bitter critic of the Narendra Modi government. In his upcoming book India Unmade, he steps up the attack on the government's economic policies and also offers suggestions to tackle farm distress through a direct cash transfer scheme for farmers. Excerpts from an interview to Surojit Gupta

• Why this strident criticism of the government's economic policy now?
I waited for over three years and watched the situation very, very carefully. When I found that the government was taking one foolish step after another like demonetisation and a botched up GST, I wrote an article expressing concern at the fall in growth rate and other issues and also said that rhetoric was alright for elections but rhetoric will not lead to increase in growth rate. That created a ripple, and there were many articles written in response saying that everything was hunky dory. The purpose of the book is to cut through the propaganda and convey the truth to the people with regard to many economic issues.


• How would you assess the health of the economy?
An economy makes progress on the basis of investments by the private sector and the government. Now, for whatever reasons, increasing NPAs (non-performing assets) etc, private investment has been negligible in the last four years. There is slight pick-up now but that is not enough to support or give momentum to the economy. Government investments are also minimal because the government is spending its budgetary resources, as in the past, on maintenance — it’s all revenue expenditure, very little investment expenditure. The economy is starved of funds. Of late, they are trying to squeeze expenditure to maintain the fiscal deficit target. Banks are reluctant to lend. And this standoff between the RBI and government is basically about liquidity. Then you have the case of the ILF&FS which has led to Rs 95,000 crore NPAs and NBFCs, which play a critical role in financing, have also been hit very badly. The economy is in dire straits.


• What is your view on Urjit Patel’s resignation as RBI governor?
The information which is in public domain is only the tip of the iceberg. Much more will come out in due course. Markets did not react adversely to his resignation because we are all aware that with all the resources at the command of the government, it is not difficult to manage the market for a day or two.


• What would you suggest to alleviate farm distress?
There is a permanent conflict of interest between the producer and the consumer and in our economic history, we find that governments have supported consumer interest more than the farmers’ interest. It is only in the last year that the government has tried to fulfill its promise of raising minimum support price by one and a half times. I have supported a basic income scheme for farmers because that is the only way in which this conflict of interest between the consumer and the producer can be resolved.


• Do you expect this idea to be pushed through in the upcoming interim budget?
They could do it. The total cost of this works out to Rs 2 lakh crore, and I have suggested that the burden should be distributed in the ratio of 70% for government of India and 30% for the state governments. We could see how it works and then improve the system.


• Do you think the PM will listen to your advice?
Sometimes they have acted on the advice that I have offered publicly without acknowledging it, and sometimes they have ignored it. Let’s see what they do this time.

.