Title
Killer rat-hole mines ruin ecology too 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/killer-rat-hole-mines-ruin-ecology-too/articleshow/67186117.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 04:59 IST

Text
SHILLONG: Almost a week after Sayeb Ali, 21, survived after being trapped in an illegal ‘rathole’ coal mine at Ksan in Meghalaya’s East Jaintia Hills, he is constantly hounded by a feeling of guilt — that he helplessly saw his fellow-miners being engulfed by water that flooded the 350-foot-deep mine. Fourteen people are still trapped inside the pit since December 13. They have the slimmest chance of survival even as rescue operations are on. 


“I survived, but seeing family members of my friends who couldn’t make it causes me pain. Images of my friends who were in the pit hounds me,” says Sayeb, who earns Rs 2,000 per day in the mines, money which he can never hope to get in any other job. The money comes with danger, and there is no health insurance or other cover for a job which poses such hazards to health and life. This is just the latest accident after the National Green Tribunal’s ban on rat-hole mining in the state on April 17, 2014. 

In 2012, at least 15 persons were trapped inside a rat-hole mine in Nangalbibra of South Garo Hills. No one knows what happened to them. Since then, several mine collapses have occurred. Many of the casualties have gone unreported because of the clandestine nature of coal mining. According to activists, in case of accidents involving migrant miners, the people running the operation simply hush things up. 

Activist Angela Rangad told TOI, “Heightened criminality has meant such accidents go unreported and local administration and police are not proactive. Perhaps this time it received attention because some of the miners trapped inside were locals.” Even CM Conrad Sangma admitted that after the Ksan disaster, illegal mining was a flourishing business. 

“It is difficult to keep a foolproof check on illegal mining, but district administrations have been asked to step up their vigil,” he said. Meanwhile, criminal elements associated with the illegal mining business have become increasingly aggressive. On November 8, Civil Society Women’s Organisation president Agnes Kharshiing and her associate Amita Sangma were injured in an attack by goons at Sohshrieh in East Jaintia Hills district. Agnes and Amita were taking photographs of trucks being loaded with coal from rat-hole mines when they were attacked. An RTI activist, Popynhum Majaw, was murdered in Khliehriat, a coal mining hub, in March this year. 

“They left us for dead on the road. The attack cannot silence us,” Amita said. In Meghalaya, coal mines are privately owned. In the predominantly tribal state, communities own land and have rights over resources. But because of the lucrative returns from coal mining that is also said to be one of the chief revenue sources for the government, community-owned lands are increasingly being privatised and used for non-agricultural activities like coal mining. 

This has triggered unabated extraction of coal through ratholes which range between 5 and 100 sq m of vertical pits, branching into networks of horizontal channels, which are at constant risk of caving in or flooding. According to some activists, the process has exploded since the 1970s, at the cost of human lives and the environment. Ministers and MLAs across party lines in the state government are mine owners. The state’s politics is enmeshed with the mining issue, which became a pivotal topic during the assembly elections earlier this year. 

The 2014 ban, during Congress rule, faced stiff resistance from mine owners. BJP and its ally NPP, which eventually won elections, promised to find a solution through “scientific mining”. The fallout of mining operations can be seen in the environment as well. The 2014 ban by NGT was based on a petition filed by All Dimasa Students’ Union after water of Kopili river in Assam allegedly turning acidic due to seepage of chemicals from coal mines in the Jaintia Hills. A water quality report in coal mining areas of the state by a team from North-Eastern Hill University in Shillong pointed out that in Jaintia Hills large scale forest denudation, scarcity of water, pollution of air, water and soil and degradation of agricultural lands “are some of the conspicuous environmental implications of coal mining”.

.