Title
J&J's baby shampoo and soap too come under lens 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/jjs-baby-shampoo-and-soap-too-come-under-lens/articleshow/67185911.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 03:24 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Tightening its noose on Johnson & Johnson, the country’s drug regulator on Thursday expanded the scope of its investigation to cover the company’s iconic brands of shampoo and baby soap, apart from powder which is already under the scanner for alleged presence of cancer-causing asbestos. The regulator also ordered J&J’s Mumbai factory to immediately stop using the available raw material to produce talc, a top official told TOI. 


A similar order was issued to the company's plant in Baddi (Himachal Pradesh) on Wednesday. Initial findings of the investigation showed that J&J was “not complying with testing norms” for raw material as per mandated under Drugs & Cosmetics Rules, the official said. 

“As per norms, the company is supposed to test each batch of raw material for all specifications, including for presence of asbestos. During the probe, inspectors found the company was not testing every batch but only randomly checking some batches,” the official said, adding it would take action against the company once the inspections were over. 

J&J did not respond till the time of going to press. TOI had first reported on Wednesday that J&J’s factories, distributors and wholesalers making or selling any brand of its body powder — for both children and adults — across the country would be raided by the central drug regulator. While inspections are on at the American pharmaceutical company’s facilities across the country, the regulator has issued prohibitory orders to two plants so far — Baddi and Mumbai. 

According to the regulator, drug inspectors found around 200 tonnes of talc raw material stored in the Mumbai factory, which the company has been prohibited from using till further orders from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). In Baddi, the plant had around 80 tonnes of talc stored during the inspection. Samples of the raw material were collected and sent for testing. 

Talc has come under the scanner in the US for allegedly containing cancer-causing asbestos. The collected samples will be tested primarily on three parameters — compliance with regulatory and manufacturing standards, for presence of asbestos in any brand of its powder and raw material used, and whether J&J’s products comply with the cosmetics standards in India, the official said. 

In July, a Missouri court had ordered J&J to pay $4.7 billion as compensation and damages to 22 women in the US who claimed asbestos in its talc had caused them ovarian cancer.

.