Title
Swiggy Funding: Swiggy gets $1bn funding, valuation zooms to $3.3bn - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/naspers-leads-1bn-round-in-swiggy-valuation-hits-3-3bn/articleshow/67186420.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 09:26 IST

Text
BENGALURU: India's consumer internet companies continue to attract blockbuster funding rounds. On Thursday, online food-delivery platform Swiggy announced it has received $1 billion in a new round led by existing investor Naspers, the South African media giant. 


New investors include China's Tencent, owner of WeChat, and hedge funds Hillhouse Capital and Wellington Management. Existing investors DST Global, Meituan Dianping and Coatue Management also participated in this round, which saw some existing investors sell part of their stake.

The funding is said to have valued Swiggy at $3.3 billion - a sharp jump from the $1.3-billion valuation in June when it raised $210 million, and the $700-million valuation in February when it raised $100 million.




The new capital gives Swiggy more ammunition to take on Zomato, which is backed by Ant Financial, which is affiliated to China's Alibaba. According to industry estimates, Swiggy does about 25 million orders a month, compared to 16-17 million by Zomato. In October, Zomato raised $210 million from Ant Financial at an estimated valuation of $2 billion. Swiggy plans to use the fresh funds to enter new categories, including medicine and grocery delivery. The company said it will also bring more quality food brands closer to consumers and address gaps in supply through delivery-only kitchens for restaurant partners. The company plans to hire top-notch talent, especially for machine learning and engineering roles across mid and senior levels as it looks to focus on building a next-generation, AI-driven platform for hyper-local discovery and on-demand delivery. 

"As we add more firepower to our vision of elevating quality of life for urban consumers by offering unparalleled convenience, we're pleased that visionary global investors share our purpose and have made such a significant investment in our future," Swiggy CEO Sriharsha Majety said in a statement. Majety founded the company in 2014 together with his BITS-Pilani colleague Nandan Reddy. The two later got in touch with IIT-Kharagpur alumnus Rahul Jaimini who joined them as co-founder and CTO. 

Leading Indian consumer internet companies - including Paytm, Ola, Oyo, Byju's and PolicyBazaar - have received large funding amounts over the past year or so. Flipkart was bought out by Walmart in a deal that valued the former at $21 billion. Investors clearly believe these companies are fundamentally disrupting their respective markets, or creating large new ones. 

Larry Illg, CEO of food and ventures at Naspers, said Swiggy has grown its monthly orders by 10 times since Naspers first put money in the firm in April 2017. "Now, nearly two years later, we have even more confidence Swiggy has the winning formula and will continue to build a leading business in the country. Swiggy has expanded throughout India to tier-1, -2 and -3 cities, and most importantly, is the most loved food delivery brand in India, providing the best service to consumers nationwide," he added.

Swiggy says it has over 50,000 restaurant partners spread across more than 50 cities with about 120,000 delivery partners. 

Naspers alone put in $660 million in the latest round. The South African company recently led another funding round of $540 million in education technology firm Byju's.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.