Title
Donald Trump throws Kabul, New Delhi under the bus with Afghan withdrawal move 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/trump-throws-kabul-new-delhi-under-the-bus-with-afghan-withdrawal-move/articleshow/67188406.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 10:39 IST

Text
WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump is ordering an American drawdown in Afghanistan, bringing home some 50 per cent of the 15,000 US troops over the next two months. The move will effectively throw the Afghan government under the bus, and beyond that, endanger Indian presence, investment, and stakes in the country, since it is expected to open the floodgates for the return of Taliban and other Pakistani terrorist proxies. 


Trump’s decision to start withdrawing from Afghanistan, which even some American experts described as a defeat, comes on the heels of a similar 

  departure from Syria he announced abruptly over Twitter
 + on Tuesday. The twin disengagements, which are in keeping with the non-interventionist outlook he often expressed during his Presidential campaign and after, led to the resignation on Thursday of Defense Secretary James Mattis. 




US defence secretary Jim Mattis quits as Trump announces Syria withdrawalUS defence secretary Jim Mattis quit Thursday as President Donald Trump weathered an escalating backlash at home and abroad over his sudden decision to pull all troops from Syria. Trump steadfastly defended the withdrawal of the 2,000-strong force from Syria, vowing that the United States would no longer be the "policeman of the Middle East".


Trump falsely tweeted that Mattis was “retiring,” but the General, who was sometimes referred to as the only adult in cabinet who could counsel the mercurial President, sent a resignation letter that laid bare their differences, including the broader issue of treatment of allies and the real threats to the United States.



General Jim Mattis will be retiring, with distinction, at the end of February, after having served my Administratio… https://t.co/PqB9L51hvN— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1545344467000

“My views on treating allies with respect and also being clear-eyed about both malign actors and strategic competitors are strongly held and informed by over four decades of immersion in these issues,” Mattis wrote. “We must do everything possible to advance an international order that is most conducive to our security, prosperity and values, and we are strengthened in this effort by the solidarity of our alliances,” he added, clearly implying Trump was not doing it. 

“Because you have the right to a Secretary of Defense whose views are better aligned with yours on these and other subjects, I believe it is right for me to step down from my position,” the departing Defense Secretary, who met his Indian counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman four times this year for talks, said. 

The US President remained unconcerned even as the foreign policy and strategic establishments had a meltdown in the hours after announcement, as he battled to secure funding for a border wall from the Congress in the face of a looming government shutdown, engendering jokes that the greatest military in the world was good for only tackling refugees and asylum-seekers. 

“Getting out of Syria was no surprise. I’ve been campaigning on it for years, and six months ago, when I very publicly wanted to do it, I agreed to stay longer. Russia, Iran, Syria & other are the local enemy of ISIS. We were doing [their] work. Time to come home & rebuild,” he explained over Twitter, as he was excoriated by even Republican lawmakers and many conservative talking heads, save a few isolationists. 

Trump did not refer to the Afghanistan drawndown, but he asked, “Does the USA want to be the Policeman of the Middle East, getting NOTHING but spending precious lives and trillions of dollars protecting others who, in almost all cases, do not appreciate what we are doing? Do we want to be there forever?”



Does the USA want to be the Policeman of the Middle East, getting NOTHING but spending precious lives and trillions… https://t.co/fNDrsdz1RJ— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1545307014000

The US involvement in Afghanistan has lasted 17 years and Trump has often expressed doubts about the utility of American troops there, evidently untutored over the 1990s vacuum that led to the rise of the Al Qaida and the 9/11 catastrophe, which has been the basis for the interventionist argument espoused by the likes of Mattis and other top US Generals, as also many leading US Senators, including Republicans. 

“The conditions in Afghanistan – at the present moment – make American troop withdrawals a high risk strategy. If we continue on our present course we are setting in motion the loss of all our gains and paving the way toward a second 9/11,” warned Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a key Trump ally on the domestic front.

The Afghan drawdown became imminent the moment Trump announced the Syria withdrawal with many analysts turning their attention to the fertile ground that gave rise to Al Qaeda and 9/11 much before ISIS appeared on the scene.

“How do you think the US precipitous withdrawal in Syria is viewed by the Taliban? The Taliban must smell blood in the water. Why would it compromise when it sees the US so eager to leave? Since when is negotiating from a position of weakness (the US) considered a clever tactic?” asked Bill Roggio of the Long War Journal, referring to recent US efforts to negotiate with the Taliban often without keeping Kabul in the loop.

Others recorded yet another episode of American inconsistency and unreliability. “If stories about US drawdown from #Afghanistan are true, Pres Trump will have done exactly what Pres Obama did: Send troops in, only to withdraw them prematurely, thereby proving the #Taliban’s maxim: Americans have watches, we have time,” Husain Haqqani, Pakistan’s former ambassador to the US, noted sagely.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest World News.