Title
Mumbai hospital fire: Food delivery boy joins rescue work, saves 10 lives 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/swiggy-man-chips-in-saves-10-people/articleshow/67153060.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 11:08 IST

Text
MUMBAI: Sidhu Humanabade (20) was out delivering food for Swiggy on Monday evening when he saw 

  smoke billowing out of Kamgar Hospital
 + in Marol. He joined the rescue operations immediately and managed to save 10 patients. “Unfortunately, two patients fell down even as I helped them on to the ladder,” said the youth from his bed in Seven Hills Hospital, Andheri, where he has been admitted for inhaling soot. 
 

“I kept a ladder on the third-floor window ledge for an elderly woman to climb down but the ledge collapsed as soon as she got on to the ladder. I could do nothing as she plunged down,” said the youth. “We have to help others in distress, there is no question of being frightened to help out,” he said, recalling how he scaled five storeys along with firemen to rescue people from the ESIC hospital.

When Sidhu rushed to the Kamgar Hospital, he could hear screams of people seeking help. “I climbed using the fire brigade’s ladder and had to use stones to break the glass facade in order to reach the people.” He stood on window ledges and got on to the floors to help people get on to the ladder even as the smoke made it difficult to see clearly or breathe easily.

It was over three hours after the rescue operation that he told the firemen that he was feeling a pain in his chest. “I had tried to wear a handkerchief on my face but it was lost later,” said Sidhu, who had his first meal in 15 hours on Tuesday. A doctor who attended on Sindhu said he would be fine soon. 

A Class X pass-out, Sidhu grew up in Airoli and had just moved in with his uncle in Andheri for the Swiggy job. His brother Chandrakant told TOI: “When we reached the hospital, we found him on oxygen support and being given fluids via IV.” Chandrakant said their parents weren’t surprised to hear that Sidhu had helped people. “He is always doing this.” 

Meanwhile, the food in Sidhu’s bike was intact. “His chappals were there too, but someone took away our helmet,” added Chandrakant.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.