Title
‘I used to be Shashi Tharoor from Churchgate’ 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/events/mumbai/i-used-to-be-shashi-tharoor-from-churchgate/articleshow/67127438.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 17, 2018, 15:51 IST

Text
It was an interesting evening recently, at Fr. Agnel Institute, Bandra, as Dr Shashi Tharoor, author and Member of Parliament, launched his latest tome, ‘The Paradoxical Prime Minister’, to a packed hall. Students, book lovers and others attended the event that saw Tharoor throw light on his book in a discussion with Sanjay Jha, laced with humour, wit and a few anecdotes.


‘Write whenever you can, read whenever you can and think even if you can’t’
After a handshake, Sanjay welcomed Tharoor to the stage, to which the latter quipped, “As long as I don’t have to play Sambit Patra this evening,” as everyone joined in with laughter at the light-hearted remark. Sanjay started by saying that a lot of folks called him the, ‘Shashi Tharoor of Ghatkopar’, and that it may have something to do with his predilection for using abstruse words. To that Tharoor said, “I used to be Shashi Tharoor from Churchgate’. I grew up bang opposite a neon ‘SO’ sign on road heading towards the Bandstand. The building opposite that, Kasturi Buildings, is where I lived on the fourth floor for 10 years.” He also spoke about his writing mantra. Sanjay remarked how Shashi’s books were well-researched, they were vastly entertaining and that the humour in them came across so well. “Three books in the course of the last two-and-a-half-years, how do you do it.? he asked him. Replied Shashi, “The short answer was given by an American humourist in the 1940s who said, ‘I write faster than anybody who writes better and I write better than anybody who writes faster. That’s my motto as well. Another thing is, I also honestly feel that those who claim they can’t find time, you never find time if you’ve lost it in the first place.” 

Tharoor added a few words of advice. He said, “I’ve written paragraphs by a resting a page against a steering wheel of a car. Those paragraphs have survived and found their way into a novel. I’ve done bits on a laptop and on a mobile phone on a moving aircraft, so it depends, but the thing is, write whenever you can, read whenever you can and think even if you can’t.” 
He shared a few more stories and anecdotes of his meetings with the Prime Minister. The evening ended with book signing. 


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Entertainment News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen