Title
Merry Christmas 2018: How to Decorate Christmas Tree 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/home-garden/merry-christmas-2018-how-to-decorate-christmas-tree/articleshow/67140678.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 18, 2018, 15:53 IST

Text
It is that time of the year again when we paint the town red with Christmas spirit. Gifts, reindeer, Christmas tree, lights and rum cakes, everything makes the environment cheerful setting the mood right for parties. It is just a week before we welcome Christmas 2018 and we all are doing our bits for decorating the house and the tree. Here are few ideas that might help you to decorate the tree and cheer up your friends and family. 


Red ribbon
Nothing beats the attractiveness of a traditional Christmas tree. It is very easy to go traditional. After decorating the tree with the ornaments, just wrap the tree with a broad red ribbon.


Lights
LED lights definitely adds a lot of spunk to the Christmas tree. You can choose from red lights to white, pink or yellow, whichever suits best with your interiors and tree decorations.


Decide a colour palette
Another interesting way to decorate the tree this year could be deciding a colour theme. You can choose from a blue and white, red and gold or pink and green theme or you can create your own colour palette. Once you decide the theme, choose all decorations according to the theme colour. It definitely looks striking.


White Christmas tree
 
You can also ditch the regular tree and get a white Christmas tree. It looks brilliant and striking and the decorations on the tree stand out too.


Ditch red, make it pink
Try to ditch regular red decorations and instead pick pink. Pink makes the tree look a little younger and the monotone decorations look very striking too.


Monogram
Monograms are going big in the decor industry so why not explore them for the Christmas tree decorations too. Hang in the monograms of all the family members and friends and see how exciting it will make them all. 


Black, white and gold
 
If you want to make your tree look sexy, you must definitely try a combination of black, white and golden decorations. Be it the ribbons, Christmas balls, embellishments or bows, everything should be either black, white or golden.


Hang in family pictures
Take out small print outs of your favourite moments with family and friends and hang them up on the tree. Decorate with other beautiful embellishments and see the magic they create!


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Life & Style News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen