Title
Bangalore: Wipro techie tries to jump off moving train, crushed to death 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/wipro-techie-tries-to-jump-off-moving-train-crushed-to-death/articleshow/67154334.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 08:34 IST

Text
BENGALURU: In a heart-wrenching incident, a 28-year-old software engineer, who had gone to bid his home-bound parents goodbye, was killed after he fell off the moving train and came under it at Carmelaram railway station, east Bengaluru, on Monday night. The youth’s father too sustained injuries as he jumped out on noticing his son was sucked under the train.


Byappanahalli police said Vikram Vijayan, a resident of Sector 3, HSR Layout and employed with Wipro, died instantly. His father, Vijayan Chakkingal, 65, a retired technician and resident of Kanjikode, Palakkad district, Kerala, has been admitted to a private hospital near Marathahalli.

Preliminary investigation revealed Vijayan and Udaya Kumari, who had been staying with their son for a few days, were to return to Palakkad in the Yeshwantpur-Kannur Express train on Monday night. Vikram brought them to Carmelaram station where the train arrived at platform no. 1 at 8.56pm and stopped for a minute.

Vikram entered the AC compartment where his parents’ seat had been reserved. Even as he took their luggage till their seats, he noticed the train had started moving. He wished them happy journey in a hurry and rushed to get off the train.

“Vikram jumped out of the train, but in a direction opposite to which it was moving. He lost control and fell in the gap between the moving train and the platform; he came under the wheels. His legs, hands and head were severed from his body. Seeing Vikram fall, Vijayan too jumped out of the moving train and sustained severe injuries,” a police officer said.

Fellow passengers pulled the chain to stop the train, which is when Udaya Kumari alighted from it and came to know of the tragedy.

Vijayan was rushed to a nearby private hospital in Marathahalli. Police said he is out of danger.

Byappanahalli railway police shifted Vikram’s body to Bowring & Lady Curzon Hospital, where the postmortem was conducted on Tuesday morning.

A case of unnatural death has been registered based on a complaint filed by Chandan Kumar, station master of Carmelaram railway station.




Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.