Title
Maharashtra BJP survey finds 2014 Lok Sabha wave ebbing, Sena crucial to success 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/bjp-survey-finds-2014-lok-sabha-wave-ebbing-sena-crucial-to-success/articleshow/67186135.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 18:39 IST

Text
MUMBAI: According to an assessment based on a recent internal BJP survey, even if the party contests the 2019 Lok Sabha election in alliance with the Shiv Sena, a repeat of the 2014 performance is not likely in the state. The BJP-Shiv-Sena combine had secured 41 of the 48 Lok Sabha seats in the state in the 2014 election. After a bypoll loss, BJP has 22 of the 48 seats, the Sena has 18, the Congress holds two, the NCP has 5, and one seat is held by the Swabhimani Paksha. 


"If we contest the Lok Sabha polls jointly, we will win fewer than 30 to 34 seats and if we contest separately, the BJP may win 15 to 18 seats, while the Shiv Sena will be able to secure five to eight seats. In that event, the Congress-NCP combine will win 22 to 28 seats," a former BJP minister said. The survey was conducted among the rank and file of the party across the state. The former BJP minister said party president Amit Shah was insistent on an alliance with the Sena to boost the tally for both parties. "Shah felt that all-out efforts should be made to reach out to Shiv Sena and ensure that BJP-Shiv-Sena repeats the 2014 performance."



Sena MP Sanjay Raut declined to comment on the tie-up. The BJP leadership has of late expressed optimism that the alliance is on course.

The former BJP minister said one of the Sena’s conditions for the alliance may be the appointment of a chief minister from its fold after the state assembly election irrespective of its seat numbers. “I am told that the Shiv Sena has asked the BJP leadership to accept the Karnataka formula in Maharashtra,” the former minister said. “In Karnataka, while the Congress secured more seats, still it accepted the leadership of the Janata Dal.”

NCP spokesman Nawab Malik said the recent debacle of BJP in the Hindi heartland was a pointer. “Whether there is an alliance between the BJP and the Shiv Sena or not, we are sure the Congress-NCP combine will secure 38 seats, while the Shiv-Sena-BJP combine will secure 10 seats,” he said. State Congress chief Ashok Chavan endorsed the view. “There is no Modi wave; I’m sure it’ll be the best performance by the Congress-NCP,” he said.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.