Title
Rachel McAdams: Hollywood actress Rachel McAdams wore Versace with a breast pump! - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/parenting/first-year/this-celebrity-mom-wore-versace-with-a-breast-pump/articleshow/67176880.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 11:46 IST

Text
While breastfeeding is the most normal thing to do for new mothers (and beyond), mothers everywhere are shamed for public breastfeeding- because 'oh! it shows her breasts'!

With Serena William and actress Chrissy Teigen having shared their breastfeeding (and breast pumping) pictures earlier, what makes Rachel's 'normalising breastfeeding' unique? Breaking stereotypes and cheering breastfeeding advocates, The Notebook actress Rachel McAdams shot for a glossy magazine and agreed to get her photo with a breast pump published. High five!




        View this post on Instagram            A post shared by Claire Rothstein Photographer (@clairerothstein) on Dec 18, 2018 at 1:11am PST


The photographer shared her picture on Instagram with a message: A million reasons why I wanted to post this picture. Obviously #rachelmcadams looks incredible and was quite literally the dream to work with but also this shoot was about 6 months post her giving birth to her son, so between shots she was expressing/pumping as still breastfeeding. We had a mutual appreciation disagreement about who’s idea it was to take this picture but I’m still sure it was hers which makes me love her even more. Breastfeeding is the most normal thing in the world and I can’t for the life of me imagine why or how it is ever frowned upon or scared of. I don’t even think it needs explaining but just wanted to put this out there, as if it even changes one person’s perception of something so natural, so normal, so amazing then that’s great. Besides she’s wearing Versace and @bulgariofficial diamonds and is just fucking major. Big shout out to all the girls

Talking about motherhood, the 40-year-old actress had said, “They say your life is not your own any more. But I had 39 years of me, I was sick of me, I was so happy to put the focus on some other person."

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Life & Style News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen