Title
Bigg Boss 12 written update December 19, 2018: Dipika gets emotional says she is disappointed with herself - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/bigg-boss-12-written-update-december-19-2018-dipika-gets-emotional-says-she-is-disappointed-with-herself/articleshow/67166857.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 20, 2018, 11:35 IST

Text
In the last episode of Bigg Boss 12, Karanvir and Surbhi exchange their seats with Romil and Dipika. The task starts and Karanvir and Surbhi's picture appears on the board. Dipika and Romil save Surbhi and eliminate Karanvir. Romil calls Karanvir Dipika's friend, but she denies and says he is just a co-housemate for her. 

Karanvir gets upset with Dipika's comment. Later, Dipika and Romil exchange their seats with Surbhi and Somi. Surbhi and Romil's picture gets displayed on the board. Both decide to save Surbhi and eliminate Romil. Deepak gets upset with Somi's decision and Romil feels she betrayed him. Later, Sreesanth and Deepak save Dipika and nominate Sreesanth. Bigg Boss announces that Dipika, Surbhi and Deepak will fight for the ticket to the finale. Sreesanth bakes a cake for his wife, while on the other side Romil and Deepak make fun of him.

Bigg Boss gives a new task to Dipika, Surbhi, and Deepak wherein they will have to wear the headphones and housemates had to express their anger at them. Bigg Boss announces that Surbhi wins the task and enters the finale. Apart from Surbhi, all housemates get nominated. Dipika cries her heart out and says she is disappointed with herself. Sreesanth tries to console her.

On the other side, Romil says he is feeling happy for Surbhi as she has entered the final round. He even says that the happy club members have reached the finale week.


Get Ready to Win Cash!!ETimes reveals the PollBaazi Q4 for the 9:00 PM game today. Install the BaaziNow app now and play to win the cash prize.Question 4 - Who according to you is the most biased news anchor?


a) Rajdeep Sardesai, b) Arnab Goswami c) Ravish Kumar

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen