Title
No chaos or snags: Tech helps test pass muster 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/no-chaos-or-snags-tech-helps-test-pass-muster/articleshow/67152519.cms

Date & Time
Dec 19, 2018, 00:49 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: After two unsuccessful attempts and following the incessant push of friends and family, I decided to reappear for the National Eligibility Test, which qualifies one for lectureship in colleges and universities. Even as I was mulling over the decision, the National Testing Agency, holding the exam for the first time after taking over from the University Grants Commission and CBSE, announced that it was opting for the online format this year. 


As a reporter who had covered the protest against the lacunae in the Staff Selection Committee’s online exams earlier this year, I had severe misgivings about whether a government agency could successfully conduct such a mass exam online.



It was with such thoughts that I travelled an hour and half on Tuesday to my allotted centre in outer Delhi. My nerves were on edge, having received a flurry of reminders on email and text messaging about what to carry to the exam hall. I reached the centre to find officials at the main gate guiding the candidates, one of whom glanced at my admit card and informed me what I had to do next. It was a pleasant surprise that the exam centre in outer Delhi had proper monitoring via CCTV cameras on the front entry gate.

I was frisked through to another room, where the official there helped me find the computer lab where I was supposed to sit for the exam. No one had ever helped me in this manner in earlier years — in the NET conducted by UGC and CBSE, I had struggled to find the room where I was to sit and write the test.

There was no queue or a rush of candidates as I quietly walked up for the biometric attendance — I pressed my thumb on the fingerprint reader and had a photograph taken. Then I was allotted a seat by the online system among the rows equipped with CCTV cameras. I realised that the computerised allocation of seating prevented the possibility of foul play.

So far so good. But would the system work fine and allow me to finish my exam without a hassle or would technical glitches mar my effort? I had my answer after three hours, one hour for Paper I and two for Paper II. Neither I nor the 100 others in the room had any complaints about the entire system. The navigation from one question to the other was seamless. We even had the option of putting our answers on review and returning to them for completion later. The experience was at par with the TOEFL I sat for a few years ago.

The quality of questions was another pleasant change. Paper I, focusing on research, was totally oriented towards this objective. Paper II comprised subject-specific questions. As for the questions, it was obvious some quality thought had gone into formulating them. This year, the questions expected you, as someone supposed to have close knowledge of a subject you are going to teach, to know both the intrinsic aspects of that subject as well as its importance in daily life. My subject was mass communication and journalism, so the reasoning and assertion question related to the different practical aspects of the media, unlike in the earlier years when they were more about theory and less to do with everyday journalism. Similarly, the comprehension passage was on press freedom.

In the end, it was a satisfying experience finishing the exam on a computerised system. Besides, as I left the exam hall, I also had the rewarding sense of having avoided the environmental wastage involved in printing a 16-page booklet. 


Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.