Title
IIT ropra water pollution: IIT-Ropar makes low-cost device to check water pollution 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/iit-makes-low-cost-device-to-check-water-pollution/articleshow/67152970.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 09:09 IST

Text
CHANDIGARH: Officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board may soon be spared the tasked of collecting samples from water bodies to check the level of pollution in them. 


This is because the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has developed a low-cost device which monitors, reads and disseminates the level of pollution in a water body in real time.

By using pollution sensors, the device measures total dissolved solids (TDS), potassium hydrogen (pH) value, chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen demand (BOD) and temperature of a water body, and shares the data with the help of a GSM device and microcontroller to a smartphone or any device connected with internet. The system raises an alarm when the level of pollutants are found to be more than permissible limits on a particular stretch. Developed by a team led by Dr Narinder Singh, associate professor, and assistant professors Dr Suman Kumar and Dr Vinayak Hande, the device has been tested successfully.

Explaining the device’s functionality, Dr Singh said different types of sensor were used to measure various parameters. The device will send the information to a computer or smartphone as per the frequency set wirelessly using internet.

An app has been developed to read the collected data on a smartphone. “The device will automatically collect the data on a set time and will go in sleep mode once the data is shared,” shared Dr Suman Kumar.

The team has made efforts to keep the device’s cost down by using low-cost sensors, GSM device and microcontroller. After making a few modifications, the team will file a patent to make, use and sell the device commercially.

Water pollution has emerged as one of the biggest problems in Punjab in recent years. As per the Central Pollution Control Board, a majority of the water bodies in the country are polluted. Industrial waste and untreated sewage are the biggest source of water pollution.

In May this year, Punjab witnessed its worst contamination of water, caused by a molasses leak in the Beas river. 

Dr Singh said the device will help authorities keep a real-time check on level of pollution in rivers caused by industries and take corrective steps. “The government will know how much pollution an industry is causing,” said Dr Singh.

Balbir Singh Seechewal, who is at the forefront of anti-river pollution campaign in Punjab, said the situation had worsened in Punjab in recent years and such devices could be of great help to authorities. 


Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.