Title
Shilpa Shinde yet again accuses Vikas Gupta of snatching her work; challenges him to enter Bigg Boss 13 with her - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/shilpa-shinde-yet-again-accuses-vikas-gupta-of-snatching-her-work-challenges-him-to-enter-bigg-boss-13-with-her/articleshow/67165521.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 21:44 IST

Text
Bigg Boss 11 winner Shilpa Shinde and Vikas Gupta's rivalry seems to be taking an ugly turn now. The actress, who recently called him the mafia of TV industry, has once again slammed Vikas claiming that he snatches people's work from them. That's not all, she even threatens him to not compel her to open his secrets in public.


My real fans know what I was inside BB house and how I m outside.. Ppl think that BB11 is over, the fight should al… https://t.co/xW9E4mBM5C— Shilpa Shinde. Risk everything...Regret nothing... (@ShindeShilpaS) 1545151910000

Shilpa shared a video on Twitter, where she can be seen lashing at Vikas Gupta saying that everyone knows that he is famous for taking away people's job from them. She asks him to stop his drama and that Salman Khan has never said that he wasn't involved in the matter. She also claimed that he was thrown out of his job and even accused him of taking drugs. Shilpa also mentioned that she has a call recording where Vikas has accepted that they treat actors badly at Balaji and then they come on a right track. She ended the video by threatening to leak his video calls and even taunts Vikas, 'har kutte ka din aata hai'... (every dog has his day).

Along with the video that Shilpa posted on Twitter, she shared a message where she clearly stated that the fight is not over yet for her. She wrote, "My real fans know what I was inside BB house and how I m outside.. Ppl think that BB11 is over, the fight should also get over.. but such things don't get over so easily.. yes the fight in BB11 was not for the show, it was and it is my fight to find justice for myself.." 

Shilpa and Vikas entered the Bigg Boss 11 house together and ever since then the two have been at loggerheads. 

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen