Title
Dawood: IIT-Bombay scores record number of offers, salaries up too 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/iit-bombay-scores-record-number-of-offers-salaries-up-too/articleshow/67170415.cms

Date & Time
Dec 20, 2018, 03:45 IST

Text
MUMBAI: With the first phase of placement season at IIT-Bombay coming to an end this week, the institute has secured an all-time high in the number of offers. A total of 1,270 offers were received at the campus this year, of which 1,122 were accepted. The number of international offers, too, went up from 65 last year to 89 this year. The institute saw international offers pouring in from US, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea. 


Not only is there a steep rise in the total number of offers at the institute, the average salary package offered in the first phase of placements has also jumped from last year's Rs 12-13 lakh/annum to Rs 17.75 lakh/annum this year, indicating an upbeat season. Of the total students registered, 70% have already been placed in this phase. However, students claimed not all registered opt for placements. Some pursue higher studies too, they added.

The highest international offer remained from Microsoft which offered Rs 1.5 crore for positions at their Redmond, Washington, office. Samsung made 27 offers- the highest by a single company - for positions in Korea, Bengaluru, Noida and Delhi. Sector-wise, engineering and technology firms picked the maximum students. The average pay package was the best in IT/software sectors with a CTC of Rs21.29 lakh/annum.

"Statistics this year have proved IIT-Bombay was the most preferred destination for recruiters. The steep rise in the numbers of offers is made possible due to adoption of new placement policies respecting both students and companies, allowing alumni mentoring and common aptitude test," said an official statement issued by the placement cell.

The next placement phase will commence in January. While the 1,270 offers were made by 361 companies, the institute is expecting more to join in the second phase. Three PSUs offered 13 jobs in the first phase, while more are expected to line up in the next phase.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.