Title
Helping people write Instagram captions is now a career - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/sunday-times/helping-people-write-instagram-captions-is-now-a-career/articleshow/67004294.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 9, 2018, 11:27 IST

Text
It may not seem like it, but Instagram is hard work. As soon you have that epic photo, you find yourself on the arduous journey to find the perfect witty/cute/funny caption. Sometimes it’s as easy as “Goa, November 2018, beer emoji” but what goes with a photo of the setting sun on a rare unpolluted Delhi day? You type and delete a hundred versions of the caption, only to save the picture in your drafts and postpone the struggle to tomorrow. Maybe you give over to the group chat — hoping that your friend’s creative juices are flowing more than your own. Or, you can use one of the many Instagram accounts and apps catering to the caption-challenged Instagrammers amongst us — and let them do all the work.

Surat-based entrepreneur Mridul Kothari, 24, started The Perfect Caption as a place to share things he was writing while mending a broken heart two years ago. It took a life of its own and now has a lakh-plus followers who visit the page to borrow captions on themes such as relationships, friendships and broken hearts. Kothari says, “The people following the page are between the ages of 16 and 26 mostly. This is when people are getting into and out of relationships.” Clearly, it’s working — going by the many people who tag the account when using captions such as ‘Your 'typing' gives me goosebumps’.

Over the last year, Indians have developed a number of apps that assist Instagrammers up their caption game. One such app is Nirav Ashara’s Captions for Instagram. Boasting 50,000 daily active users, the app has hundreds of categories, everything from beauty to business. Seventy percent of their expanding user base is Indian. “People struggle with Instagram captions, especially those who don’t know English. It’s for people who have an idea of what they want to say but don’t know quite how to put it,” says Rajkot-based Ashara.

Caption House run by Aniket Manjare stemmed from the 21-year-old student’s frustration with the tedious process of sourcing captions. His aim was to make his app a one-click affair. He says that besides people who are not fluent in English, even those with a good vocabulary are using these services. “They’d much rather look online for a caption because it’s easier and they think they’ll find what is ‘trending’.”

So what’s behind the race to create caption apps? Currently, all these are free and largely rely on advertising to monetise. But there is the promise of big money. A couple of months ago, American writer and ad exec Laura Belgray penned a viral article on how she is making as much as $950 (Rs 67,000) an hour for her Instagram motivational quote writing services. Closer to home, Kothari recently got an offer of Rs 1.5 lakh from a buyer in the US to purchase his Instagram page.

Some developers, including two students of Indian origin in the US, are going beyond templated captions. Issa Caption is a US-based app that uses machine learning to analyse an image, and then matches it with a relevant caption from their database. The brainchild of students Nathan Leung, Samay Shamdasani and Rohan Bhati, the captions they offer are from rap and hip-hop lyrics that correspond to a picture you upload on their app.

Bhati, an 18-year-old second generation Indian-American, says, “We saw the lengths people went to in order to ensure they had a good caption on the spot. Some people even had whole folders in their notes app filled with potential Instagram caption ideas.”

And rap lyrics, they thought, would appeal to youngsters who were looking for something different. They are now looking to include a number of music artistes, including from Bollywood, to cater to the Indian market.

Using similar technology is Auto Caption, an Indian app that uses image recognition technology to determine the various elements in a picture and finds you a relevant caption. Not only that, it also identifies the popular hashtags you can post relating to the image to guarantee more likes. Akash Nidhi, a Bangalore-based app developer, created Auto Caption with a few friends. Nidhi says the app is for those who, like him, post 3 to 4 pictures a week, and don’t always have something interesting to say. “Over the last few years, Instagram has really blown up in India,” he adds. 
Instagram’s user base in India is now 71 million monthly active users according to the latest data. And most of them are desperately searching for Insta-fame. “Users think Instagram can make them famous, and for that they need good captions,” Ashara says.


How to write a good Insta caption
* Don’t make it too long — no one needs every single detail about your cousin's sangeet
* Make it relevant to the photo, no selfies with unrelated motivational quotes
* Don’t use too many hashtags #please #instaplease 
* Use emojis to draw attention
* When in doubt, less is more

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Home News.