Title
Not just Vijay Mallya, govt trying to get back 58 looters & scooters 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/not-just-vijay-mallya-govt-trying-to-get-back-58-looters-scooters/articleshow/67170321.cms

Date & Time
Dec 20, 2018, 03:05 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The government informed Parliament on Wednesday that Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi, Nitin and Chetan Sandesara, Lalit Modi and European middlemen Guido Ralph Haschke and Carlo Gerosa are among 58 economic offenders living abroad who are being pursued through look out circulars (LoCs), Interpol red notices and extradition requests. 


Out of these 58, the government and investigation agencies — CBI, ED and DRI — are currently pursuing at least 16 extradition requests in the UAE, UK, Belgium, Egypt, the US and Antigua and Barbuda. The detailed reply filed by the ministry of external affairs in Lok Sabha on Wednesday reveals that government has sent fresh extradition requests for VVIP chopper scam middlemen —Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa — to Italy in October. 

Earlier, CBI had sent extradition requests for Gerosa in November 2017 and Haschke in January 2018, which were returned by Italian authorities. Investigators say that Haschke and Gerosa are important to connect the missing link in VVIP chopper scam as Christian Michel has already been extradited recently from the UAE. About Nirav Modi, the MEA reply said that while a red notice has already been issued against him, the UK has been approached with two separate extradition requests against him in August while separate extradition requests have been sent to the UAE against the diamantaire, his brother Neeshal and close aide Subhash Parab, since they may visit there. For Neeshal, separate extradition request has also been sent to Belgium and for Parab, a request has been sent to Egypt. 

Similarly, two extradition requests have been sent for Choksi to Antigua and a red notice has recently been issued against him by the Interpol, making him an international fugitive. Gujarat-based businessman Ashish Jobanputra and his wife Priti are being pursued through extradition requests to the US. About Lalit Modi, former IPL commissioner, the government said that his “money trail” was being pursued through LRs sent to Singapore, Hong Kong, the UAE and Mauritius while hunt is also on for middlemen Deepak Talwar (said to be in the UAE) and Sanjay Bhandari (in London). Talwar specifically is being sought from the UAE through the mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT). 

About the Sandesaras, accused of cheating banks of Rs 5,000 crore through their company Sterling Biotech, the government said red corner notice against Chetan, Nitin, Dipti Sandesaras and one Hiteshkumar Patel are under process. Former liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s extradition has already been ordered by a UK court last week. “Efforts are being made for securing presence of these accused in the country by way of issuance of LOC (Look Out Circulars), RCN (Red Corner Notice) and extradition requests,” said minister of state Gen (retired) V K Singh.

.