Title
The Kapil Sharma Show new promo: Kiku Sharda makes fun of Kapil's one year sabbatical; watch video - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/the-kapil-sharma-show-new-promo-kiku-sharda-makes-fun-of-kapils-one-year-sabbatical-watch-video/articleshow/67156790.cms

Date & Time
Dec 19, 2018, 11:34 IST

Text
The wait to see the return of Kapil with the season 2 of The Kapil Sharma Show is finally over as the first promo featuring the ace comedian is finally out. The comedian-turned-actor, who has been away from the small screen for the past one year, is seen making fun of his own sabbatical. 

In the teaser promo, Kiku Sharda, who plays Baccha Singh can be seen taking a dig at Kapil and goes on to joke what the Kis Kis Pyaar Karoon actor did during his break time. The funny banter cannot be missed and they leave you in splits of laughter. The episode has Sara Ali Khan and Ranveer Singh as special guests.


Aakhir Kapil Sharma ek saal se kya kar rahe the? Jaaniye #TheKapilSharmaShow mein! Shuru ho raha hai 29 December se… https://t.co/T41kbV3FWV— Sony TV (@SonyTV) 1545145625000

The new promo has built a lot of curiosity around the show and is a delight for the fans who have been waiting for the show's new season. It brings back all the good old memories of the show and also reminds us of the witty repartee that happened between the two comedians. The new season of TKSS will also feature Krushna Abhishek, Bharti Singh, Sumona Chakravarti and Rochelle Maria Rao. 

The promo looks promising and assures fans that something exciting is in store for the viewers. 

The show is all set to go on air from 29th December 2018

Kapil got married to his longtime girlfriend Ginni Chatrath on December 12, in a lavish ceremony in Phagwara, near Jalandhar. The actor is making his comeback immediately after marriage and will be throwing a reception party on December 24 for his industry folks in Mumbai.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen