Title
'2.0' full movie box office collection good even after HD movie download on Tamilrockers: The Rajinikanth and Akshay Kumar starrer is now the third biggest film ever in south film history

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/2-0-box-office-collection-the-rajinikanth-and-akshay-kumar-starrer-is-now-the-third-biggest-film-ever-in-south-film-history/articleshow/67191113.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 19:44 IST

Text
Director S. Shankar's big-budget Sci-Fi film ' 2.0' starring Rajinikanth and Akshay Kumar saw a drop in business in its third week at the box office. Sequel to the 2010 hit film Enthiran (Robot), '2.0' is also touted as the most expensive Indian film ever made. The film which hit the screens on 29th November is a super hit which has done very good business both in the national and worldwide collections.



Also See: 2.0 Movie Review
According to the latest report by BoxofficeIndia.com, the film has managed to collect Rs 9 crore in the third week at the box office. The film has in total has collected Rs 184 crore nett in three weeks. The film has most probably exhausted its run and there is not much more to come in the days ahead.

Overall the film is the third biggest film of South India of all time. '2.0' fell short behind the two Bahubali films which are the biggest ever films from South India in terms of adjusted collections.



Also See: 'Kedarnath' box office collection day 14: The Sushant Singh Rajput and Sara Ali Khan starrer collects Rs. 1.75 crore on Thursday
The film's plot revolves around Chitti (played by Rajinikanth), the once dismantled humanoid robot, and Pakshirajan (played by Akshay Kumar), an ornithologist who seeks vengeance on cell phone users to prevent bird population decline. The music of 
the film has been composed by none other than the music maestro A. R. Rahman.

Helmed by S. Shankar, '2.0' also stars Amy Jackson. Sudhanshu Pandey, Adil Hussain, Kalabhavan Shajohn, and K. Ganesh appear in supporting roles.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Entertainment News.PHOTOS See AllSteamy pictures of Riya SenSakshi teases fans with her sultry picsPriyanka, Nick's Bollywood reception