Title
Sonu Nigam on Sona Mohapatra: She's vomiting on Twitter, but I'd like to maintain decorum 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/music/news/sonu-nigam-on-sona-mohapatra-shes-vomiting-on-twitter-but-id-like-to-maintain-decorum/articleshow/67175966.cms

Date & Time
Dec 20, 2018, 14:29 IST

Text
Singer Sonu Nigam has responded to Sona Mohapatra's tweets against him, saying that though she is "vomiting" on Twitter, he would like to maintain decorum.



#MeToo movement: Sona Mohapatra hits out at Sonu Nigam for supporting Anu MalikSonu Nigam recently lent his support to singer-composer Anu Malik who is allegedly accused of sexual misconduct. Following this, singer Sona Mohapatra has lashed out against Nigam in her recent Twitter post. 


Mohapatra had voiced her disapproval with Nigam for his reported comment in support of Anu Malik, who is facing #MeToo allegations. She had earlier called the music composer a "serial predator".


Nigam was quoted as saying at a media summit over the weekend that Malik, his longtime friend, was accused without any proof and had maintained a dignified silence on the #MeToo allegations



In a statement on Thursday, the singer said, "The respectable lady vomiting on Twitter, is the wife of someone who I consider very close to me, so although she's has forgotten the relationship, I'd like to maintain the decorum." 

Nigam said women with courage shaming their oppressors is a "refreshing" change.

"Only an animal will not support #MeToo movement. Women with frankness and courage, shaming their oppressors, is a refreshing sign of changing times.

"Women have been long oppressed throughout the course of history and it's high time to end this Tribal mindset of treating them like properties or trophies, and now they walk hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder with men," he added.

Malik has repeatedly denied all the allegations. His lawyer told at the time that the #MeToo movement was being used for his client's "character assassination".

Following the allegations, the music composer stepped down as a jury member from a singing show, a singing reality show of which he was part since its inception in 2004.

Mohapatra was quick to hit back at Nigam.

"So, now, my identity has become 'wife'. Not only does your reporter refer to me as that, so does the defender of a serial sexual predator. Big hurray for the boys club & big hurrah to patriarchy, not," she wrote while tagging news report on the matter.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Entertainment News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen