Title
Danish Zehen's followers increase on social media post his tragic demise - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/danish-zehens-followers-increase-on-social-media-post-his-tragic-demise/articleshow/67193849.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 18:41 IST

Text
Ace Of Space contestant 
Danish Zehen passed away in a horrific car accident yesterday (December 20). The 21-year-old, was an internet sensation and was popular for rapping songs and review products on his social media accounts. Zehen was a YouTube blogger as well. He enjoyed immense fan following with 855k followers on his Instagram page and 3.7 lakh subscribers on his YouTube channel. 



Also See: Sara Ali Khan remembers Ace of Space contestant Danish Zehen, shares a video
Fans and co-contestants of Danish were shocked with the tragic news and many took to social media to offer their condolences. 

Thousands of teary-eyed fans and followers reached his family home in Kurla to attend the funeral and see him one last time. His social media accounts and YouTube Pages have witnessed increase in followers post his tragic demise. 

He has now got 1.5 million followers on Instagram and 4.57 lakh subscribers on his YouTube channel. The followers on social media have gone up after his untimely demise. 



Also See: Ace Of Space contestant Danish Zehen's funeral sees thousands of fans and followers on the streets
After the news of Zehan's death came out, his fans, host Vikas Gupta and contestants from the show like Chetna Pande, Divya Agarwal and TV celebrity Parth Samthaan and many others took to social media to offer their condolences. 

Zehen was driving back to Navi Mumbai after attending a wedding in Kurla when he lost control of his car and it hit a roadside wall around 12.30 am. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, the official further added. Zehen's brother, who was travelling with him, sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment. 

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllSteamy pictures of Riya SenSakshi teases fans with her sultry picsPriyanka, Nick's Bollywood reception