Title
Sajjan Kumar: Delhi HC dismisses Sajjan Kumar's plea for extension of time to surrender 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/delhi-hc-dismisses-sajjan-kumars-plea-for-extension-of-time-to-surrender/articleshow/67188756.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 13:17 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed Sajjan Kumar's plea seeking an extension of time to surrender in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, saying it found no ground for granting the relief.


The former Congress leader had on December 20 ( Thursday) 

  sought time from the court till January 30
 + to surrender after being recently sentenced to life imprisonment, saying he had to settle family affairs, including those related to property. The convicted ex-member of parliament is married and has three children and eight grandchildren.

The high court had earlier this week directed the 73-year-old to surrender before authorities by December 31 after holding him guilty.




Sajjan Kumar convicted in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case: What the Delhi HC said in its verdictThe Delhi high court on Monday sentenced Congress leader Sajjan Kumar to life in the first conviction of a politician in the deadly anti-Sikh riots in 1984, holding it was perpetrated by those with "political patronage" and pushed for a new law for speedy prosecution of genocide and mass killings.


"The applicant is at present under shock and surprise in view of the order of acquittal being set aside and him being convicted, although the applicant believes he in innocent," the plea stated.

In his plea, Kumar also said he wants to approach the Supreme Court through a senior lawyer, but as the apex court is on vacation, most senior advocates are on holiday.

“The applicant is the best person to brief his counsel and inform them about the facts. The applicant prays that he be granted further extension of 30 days so as to enable him to settle his family affairs to meet his close relatives, near and dear ones including friends who have been associated with him over a period of 73 years,” it said.

The Delhi high court convicted and awarded life term “till the remainder of his life” to Kumar in a case relating to the killing of five Sikhs in Raj Nagar part-I in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar part II during that period.

The riots had broken out after the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.



            In Video:
            1984 riots case: Sajjan Kumar's plea rejected, will have to go to jail by December 31.