Title
RBSE 12th Exam Date 2019: Rajasthan Board Class 12 date sheet released; exams from March 7 - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/education/news/rajasthan-board-class-12-exams-from-march-7/articleshow/67190102.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 17:47 IST

Text
AJMER: Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will start their board examination of Class XII from March 7 and it will end on April 2. The board on Thursday issued the date sheet of Class XII examination. Again as per tradition, the board exam of Rajasthan education board is starting from Thursday, March 7, which has been the ritual since last 40 years. It is expected that date sheet of Class X, senior secondary examination of Rajasthan Board will be declared in coming days.








The Varishtha Upadhyay examination 2019 of Rajasthan Education Board is also starting from March 7 but senior secondary exam for deaf and dumb will start from March 9. Secretary of the board, Meghna Choudhary said that preparation to conduct state level senior secondary examination has been completed and board assures that transparent and fair examinations will be conducted again. Sources said that about 8 lakh students throughout the state will be appearing in this examination.



The first paper of Class XII on March 7 will be compulsory English followed by different compulsory and optional papers in the stream of humanities, commerce and science subjects. Exams of the main subject of science stream will be over on March 25 but other optional and exams of the subject of humanities and commerce will go till April 2. This is because science students have to appear for different entrance examinations and so that they can get extra time for preparation.

Board has also released the date sheet of Varishtha Upadhyay examination starting from March 7 and ending on March 30. Exams for senior secondary deaf and dumb students will start separately from March 9 and will end on March 30.

Board has directed students to manage their time properly during the examination. For the mild cases of handicapped students, one extra hour will be given and for the moderate and severe cases of handicap, a writer will be allowed in the examination. Board has also directed the students that it will be compulsory to write the word 'end' after finishing the answer sheet so that no space after that can be used in any way.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Home News.