Title
Organ donation: In her death, Indore woman gives new lease of life to six 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/indore/organ-donation-dec-19/articleshow/67169469.cms

Date & Time
Dec 20, 2018, 05:56 IST

Text
INDORE: Emerging as the centre of organ donation, Indore on Wednesday witnessed 36th green corridor. It was for the first time in the state when the donor’s lungs were transplanted. 

Family members of Harshita Kaushal, 36, who died due to brain haemorrhage, agreed for organ donation to fulfil her wish and gave new lease of life to six people. 

Doctors were able to transplant her five organs including eyes, liver, heart, kidneys and lungs. Lungs and heart were sent to Mumbai through air taxi.

Among the beneficiaries, a 27-year-old woman got heart and lungs in Mumbai, a 57-year-old man suffering from NASH got liver in CHL, a 30-year-old man received kidney in Choithram and the other kidney has been donated to 66-year-old woman in Bombay Hospital. Eyes have been donated to MK International Eye Hospital, said NGO Indore Organ Donation Society member Jitu Bagani.

Harshita suffered brain haemorrhage while she was taking her elder brother to hospital. “On Sunday night, I suffered chest pain. Thinking it to be a cardiac arrest, I called Harshita to take me to hospital. She called ambulance. She asked me about my condition, when I told her that I am fine, she collapsed on the floor,” Harshita’s elder brother Abhishek told to TOI.

He added, “We rushed her to Bombay Hospital where doctors informed us about brain haemorrhage. They were going to operate her, but on Tuesday afternoon, they declared her brain dead and then confirmed again on evening.”

Harshita wanted to donate her organs. “My father died around 10 years ago due to kidney failure. At that time, organ donation was rare, due to unavailability of kidney he died. While reading newsprints on organ donation, she used to say that she also want her organs to be donated,” said Anuj, brother of Harshita.

Three green corridors including one till the airport, CHL and Choithram were formed. The first green corridor was formed from Bombay Hospital to airport which started at 3:48pm and ambulance reached airport by 4:05pm. For CHL the ambulance left at 4:10 pm, and reached around 4:15 pm. While for Choithram hospital, the ambulance left Bombay Hospital at 5:29 pm and reached at 5:42 pm.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News.