Title
Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai written update, December 20, 2018: Kartik gets worried for Naira - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/yeh-rishta-kya-kehlata-hai-written-update-december-20-2018-kartik-gets-worried-for-naira/articleshow/67189629.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 12:07 IST

Text
In the latest episode of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, the doctor asks Kartik to take Naira to the best gynecologist as her clot can reoccur. 

Kartik gets shocked listening to the doctor. He thinks whether he should ask Naira to abort the baby or no. Kartik sees Naira happy and decides to not tell her anything.

On the other side, Kaveri and Devyani along with Kirti visit the doctor and get happy to hear that everything is fine. 

Kartik gets overprotective about Naira and she gets happy seeing his different side. Naira notices that Kartik is upset about something and asks him about it. Kartik tells her that will have to abort the child and she gets shocked. He tells her that doctor has told him that this pregnancy is not advisable if the person had a clot in past. 

Naira gets upset and starts running and falls down on the stomach. Naira screams and blames Kartik for everything. Later Kartik realises that it was his dream and gets scared. 

Kartik blames himself for everything and says initially he said that he did not want the baby and is getting punished for the same. 

Kartik and Naira reach home and she tells him that they should go to the gynecologist. Luv and Kush tell Naira that one of their friends keeps teasing them. Naira gives them a solution. Soon, Parth’s mother complains about Luv and Kush's rude behavior. Suhasini and Surekha get to know that Naira trained Luv-Kush. Suhasini tells Surekha that they cannot tell anything directly to Naira as she will never listen. Soon, she says that she has a plan to make her understand.

Kartik gets a courier wherein he sees a book which has the stages of pregnancy. He receives a message from the doctor that his appointment with the gynecologist is fixed. He gets tensed as he hasn't revealed anything to Naira.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen