Title
Engineering admissions 2019: Which is the best field in engineering? - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/education/news/engineering-admissions-2019-which-is-the-best-field-in-engineering-bu/articleshow/67075571.cms

Date & Time
Dec 13, 2018, 17:41 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: If you are planning to apply for admissions in Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech/BE) courses for the academic session 2019 then you have to find out which subject interests you more. B.Tech has numerous branches from - Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science Engineering to Tool Engineering and Transportation Engineering etc, you can choose one for pursuing your under graduation. 


After the completing of four year full-time undergraduate course (B.Tech) you will be awarded engineering degrees. 









Here we are listing top five B.Tech courses 


Mechanical Engineering 
If you love to play with heavy machineries & tools and like to design, analyze, manufacturing and maintenance of mechanical system, then 
Mechanical Engineering is the right filed for you. There is lots of scope to excel in aerospace dynamics design and automotive engineering. 

While doing under graduation in mechanical engineering you learn how the electricity is distributed through generators, transmission lines, transformers wiring in buildings and lighting. During the course you will be able to gain knowledge and experience in aircrafts and other heavy vehicles, automobiles and electric motors. Apart from handling the heavy tools and machineries you will be taught the technology behind this and the usage of the software, mathematical modeling and computer-aided design.


Biotech

If you wish to reduce pollution through bio-based means, want to learn how cell functions in living beings and wish to do some research and development of bio-organism then 
Biotech is for you. Through this course you learn genetic engineering, development of bio-organism, micro-organism, bio-chemistry, chemistry etc. 

Through Biotechnology engineering course you focus on fields like do research in diseases, vaccines, eco-system, fertilizers, agriculture, animal husbandry, energy production etc. 

During the four-year program you will study about drug designing, Genetically-modified products (foods), problems in health field, nutrition, environment, and energy etc. 


Computer Science

It is one of the most popular courses for B.Tech. In the 
Computer Science course you learn about computer programming and networking. During the course of four years you will learn the art of managing information system, design and its implementation. If you are fascinated by the world of Artificial Intelligence, cyber security then it is the course for you.


Electronics & Communication

During the past decade the world has seen huge revolution in the field of communication, and if it does excite you as well then you should join 
Electronics & Communication engineering.

During the course you would learn application of mathematical and scientific principles to design and integrate electrical and electronics systems, the technology behind the 5G, Internet of Things, electronics and communication work and information processing & analytics. 

Laser, optical engineering and integrated circuit are part of this course. You can be employed in an MNC as a network planning engineer, service engineers, field test engineer and software analyst.


Engineering Physics

Through 
Engineering Physics course you become the master of nanotechnology, renewable energy and optical communications.

Now that you know about all the branches of engineering, select the one you are genuinely passionate about and that would be the best engineering field for you. 


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Home News.