Title
Kulfi Kumar Bajewala, written update, December 20, 2018: Kulfi and Amyra promise to re-unite Sikander and Lovely - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/kulfi-kumar-bajewala-written-update-december-20-2018-kulfi-and-amyra-promise-to-re-unite-sikander-and-lovely/articleshow/67190483.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 13:04 IST

Text
In the latest episode of Kulfi Kumar Bajewala, Kulfi gets a walkie-talkie and both Kulfi and Amyrah talk secretly to each other. Amyrah cries and tells Kulfi that her father Sikander sent the divorce papers. Kulfi tells Amyrah that Sikander signed the divorce papers in anger but he did not send it. Kulfi and Amyra get shocked and think who might have sent the papers. 

Sikander gets a letter from Lovely's lawyer. Later, Mahendra says that he kept the divorce papers in his cupboard and later doubts Gunjan. 

Gunjan confesses that she had sent the papers to Lovely. Mahendra loses his calm at Gunjan and shouts at her. Sikander stops Mahendra from shouting at Gunjan and says that he has got all the answers that he wanted from Lovely. 

Amyra tells Kulfi that she got to know how divorce happens and learned it from the internet. Both decide to stop Sikander and Lovely from getting separated. Kulfi tells her that she will stop Sikander while Amyra has to stop Lovely from going to the court. 

Lovely is about to leave the house when Amyrah starts acting and says that she has a terrible stomach ache. While, on the other side, Kulfi asks Sikander to help her in studies. 

Cutie tells Lovely to leave for the court as she will take care of Amyra. While on the other side, Gunjan tells Sikander to leave as she will help Kulfi with her studies. 

Amyra and Kulfi talk to each other and decide to meet. Adi introduces Apoorv as India’s best lawyer and he reaches the court. Lovely gets emotional and Apoorv tells Lovely that he is there for her. 

Sikander and Lovely get into an argument and target each other. On the other side, Kulfi and Amyra plan to stop Sikander and Lovely from getting divorced.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllBikini-clad Bipasha shakes up the internetGizele Thakral turns up the heatSteamy pictures of Riya Sen