Title
Armaan Kohli secures bail in illegal alcohol possession case - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/armaan-kohli-secures-bail-in-illegal-alcohol-possession-case/articleshow/67194233.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 16:59 IST

Text
Actor Armaan Kohli, who was arrested on Thursday evening for allegedly stocking alcohol beyond permissible limit, secured bail in the case on Friday. 
A team of excise police officials raided Armaan’s Juhu home on Thursday and found Scotch whisky stocked beyond permissible limit. According to law, a person cannot possess more than 12 units of hard liquor in a month. The actor was taken to the excise department Q division’s Bandra office for further questioning later in the evening. He appeared before the Bandra court yesterday and was granted bail in the case. 

An official from the excise police department informed BT, “We raided Armaan Kohli’s home and seized 41 unopened bottles and 35 empty bottles of Scotch whisky, which is beyond the permissible limit. He was taken for further questioning and appeared before the court yesterday around 11 am.”

After securing bail, Armaan told BT, “I have secured bail for a bond of `20,000. I returned from Dubai on Tuesday and, along with six friends, bought 12 bottles of whisky from duty free, as I was planning to host a party a few days later. I have the required liquor permit and duty-free license. Unlike what has been claimed, I just had around 40 bottles, of which 19 were unopened. I spent the night at the Bandra excise office. I appeared before the court on Friday around 11.30 am and was granted bail on the basis of the proof I produced.” He adds, “Clearly, someone is after my life and wants to tarnish my image.”

This is not the first time Armaan has landed himself in a legal tangle. He was earlier accused of assaulting his ex-girlfriend Neeru Randhawa, and later, a family friend Nadia Hayat had lodged an FIR against him for threatening and verbally abusing her. 

Download The Times of India News App for Latest TV News.PHOTOS See AllSteamy pictures of Riya SenSakshi teases fans with her sultry picsPriyanka, Nick's Bollywood reception