Title
BTech Admissions 2019 in Delhi, India 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/education/news/b-tech-admissions-2019-opens-at-bennett-university-apply-bennett-edu-in-bu/articleshow/67022811.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 12, 2018, 16:01 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The online application process for the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) programs at Bennett University is open now. 


The candidates who wish to submit their application for the Bennett University B.Tech program can visit the official website of the University to submit their application form online. The official website of Bennett University is - 
bennett.edu.in.









Bennett University offers following B.Tech programs



Mechanical
Civil
Biotech
Computer Science
Electronics & Communication
Engineering Physics
Bioinformatics


USPs of the Bennett B.Tech program



B.Tech Program offered by Bennett University is designed to match the industry requirements of the engineering sector
It teaches technical excellence, life skills such as teamwork, critical reasoning, communication, managerial & leadership abilities
It develops entrepreneurial thinking in students through live & capstone projects, internships, and a culture of continuous learning. The BU has tie-up with Babson, USA.
The students get to learn with top-notch faculty from IIT'S and NIT'S and visiting faculty from Georgia Tech, USA. 


Internship Opportunities



The Bennett University B.Tech students get opportunity of 2 week summer internship at Babson, USA. 
The students also get industry exposure powered by The Times Group Connect


All you need to know about Bennett University B.Tech Program 


Bennett University B.Tech Admission 2019: Eligibility Criteria 

The candidates should check the eligibility criteria given below before submitting their online application form for Bennett B.Tech admissions 2019:



A candidate should have appeared/Qualified in JEE (Main) – 2019 or SAT (for NRI/International category)
The candidate should have passed 10+2 with minimum 5 subjects in the year 2017/2018/2019, with 60% aggregate marks
For B.Tech admissions, Physics and Maths are compulsory subjects (Except Biotechnology/ Bioinformatics)
For B.Tech. Biotechnology program, Physics and Biology/Biotechnology are compulsory subjects
Candidates born on or after October 1, 1998, can only apply for B.Tech admission


Check further details hereScholarshipBennett university provides scholarships to the first year Undergraduate students. 
Click here to check Bennett University B.Tech Program Fee and Scholarship details


How to apply for Bennett University B.Tech Admission 2019?

The candidates can follow the simple procedure given below to submit their online application for the admission:



Open the official website of the BU - bennett.edu.in
From top navigation, click on Admission and then click on B.Tech Apply Now link or click on the link given below: Bennett University B.Tech Online Application Link
Once you click on the link, it will redirect to a registration page
Enter your details to register and then fill the online application form
Check all the details and click on submit 
Note down the acknowledgement number for further reference


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Home News.