Title
financial adviser news: Why you may need an adviser - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/why-you-may-need-an-adviser/articleshow/67127216.cms

Date & Time
Dec 17, 2018, 16:23 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The large unutilised balance in the savings bank account leads to pangs of regret. So we browse investment options. Someone recommends an adviser or relationship manager. We talk, but are unimpressed. Why is this so tough? What exactly are the constraints?


First, we don’t make money decisions easily. We are fine with the money lying idle and console ourselves that at least it is not losing value in a wrong investment. Second, we are unable to simplify the investment selection process. We feel we should evaluate everything, have some basis for selection that is robust, and choose the best among the lot. We choose based on our needs and form expectations about how it would work for us. Product selection is not an exact science.

Third, we are quite mixed up about timing. Some of us think that timing is everything and whether we make money or not depends on when we invested and when we took the money out. Fourth, we are ill-prepared to deal with unexpected events like markets crash, political events that can alter economy, and so on. It is tough dealing with panic. Fifth, despite the best research and analysis, some of our investments could underperform. Making the decision to sell what is not working can be difficult. Portfolio review is not easy for many of us. Therefore, it is important to consider how we deal with these constraints and figure out the choice between engaging a financial adviser and DIY. At the same time, for advisers to add value, they should be able to persuade you to organise your finances so that you identify your goals and invest for them.

Some of us are very enamored by the markets, and find the process of investing very stimulating. Some have a great skill in execution, and find it easy to follow through and complete planned investment decisions. Some are in charge of money and find the costs of outsourcing painful. DIY is suitable in such cases. Choose whatever keeps your money well deployed and closely monitored, whether by your adviser or you. Don’t let it lie idle because you haven’t been able to decide either way.


(The author is chairperson of The Centre for Investment Education and Learning)

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.