Title
Sunil Mittal: Why telecom is certainly not tobacco 

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/why-telecom-is-certainly-not-tobacco/articleshow/66375912.cms

Date & Time
Oct 26, 2018, 13:57 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Airtel’s founder chairperson Sunil Bharti Mittal took to hyperbole and misinformation when he claimed at an industry event that telecom is being taxed like tobacco in India; he was explaining his company’s poor financial performance for the second quarter ended September 30.


Airtel's net profit fell for the tenth straight quarter, down 65.4 per cent (year-on-year), as losses on India business widened due to pricing pressure from aggressive competition.


What Mittal had said: Speaking at the inaugural session of India Mobile Congress 2018, Mittal, rued that the telecom sector remains highly taxed just like the tobacco industry, when it is contributing to India's digital aspirations.

"In India, for every Rs 100 that mobile operators earn, nearly Rs 37 goes towards one form of levy or the other. I cannot see how this contradiction can exist...where on one hand we have PM's vision of digitally enabled India ...which requires tremendous amount of investment, on the other hand we keep the spectrum prices and our licence fee very high...and of course the GST is at 18 per cent which almost at the highest tax bracket," Mittal said.

According to Mittal’s own calculation, telecom companies pay less than 20 per cent as tax on their earnings. But compare that to cigarettes, the largest selling tobacco product, which are taxed nearly 55 per cent on each stick.


A different bracket: Contrary to the Airtel top honcho’s lament that taxes on telecom are among the highest GST slab, they are a distant second to the highest GST slab of 28 per cent levied on cigarettes — telecom attracts a GST rate of 18 per cent, with an added benefit of input tax credit on capex (capital expenditure).


Competition: It’s not so much the taxes that resulted in a 65 per cent drop in Airtel’s earnings for the second quarter but a bruising tariff war with new entrant Reliance Jio and newly-merged Vodafone-Idea, which has pipped Airtel as India’s largest telecom operator. Airtel’s ARPU has declined nearly 29 per cent year-on-year for the second quarter.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.