Title
DTC to launch inter-state CNG bus service from Delhi in Feb - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/dtc-to-launch-inter-state-cng-bus-service-from-delhi-in-feb/articleshow/67195922.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 18:38 IST

Text
New Delhi, Dec 21 () Delhi Transport Corporation is planning to start inter-state services, with buses using CNG as fuel from February on pilot basis to develop green corridor around the national capital. "We have got (safety) approval for Type-IV cylinder which is based on polymer or fibre. It is light and we have tested it on bus trial. We have decided to run these buses on long routes from Delhi to Agra, Jaipur, Haridwar and Chandigarh. We will call these routes green corridors because it will use clean fuel," Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told reporter here. The minister was talking to media persons on the sideline of a function of Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) to launch various digital initiatives for its consumers. Giving more detail about the pilot project, Pradhan said,"This service is being launched on trail basis which would be proved commercially viable eventually. After that, more such buses would be run on various routes". A senior official said the cylinders have been imported from Germany that are lighter, and enables the bus to run for up to 700 kilometer in one fuel top up. The existing ordinary CNG buses have five steel cylinders with a capacity of 100 kg fuel top up. The new buses will have seven fibre cylinders which can store up to 300 kg CNG. The existing ordinary bus cost is about Rs 32 lakh, while the one with fibre cylinder would cost Rs 39 lakh as each cylinder cost is Rs one lakh per unit. He also said that once the pilot is successful then the cylinders will be manufactured here as it would reduce the cost from existing Rs one lakh per imported unit. The official also said that the DTC can procure these buses from Ashok Leyland and the fibre cylinders would be installed over the bus instead beneath the vehicle. The IGL has planned to press 8 such buses on long routes eventually next year to set example for other state transport departments and private operators. The DTC had stopped inter-state bus service since 2010 when the entire fleet was switched to CNG due to no availability of this fuel in other states. This pilot project will also mark the DTC's entry into inter-state transport segment again after almost 8 years. The digital initiative of the IGL include CNG Queue Management System (QMS) and Social CRM. The CNG Queue Management System through "OORJA" mobile application would provide information regarding the average waiting time at the CNG station and also alternative nearby CNG Station to the customers. The customers will know the waiting time for three broad categories i.e. buses, cars and autos. They will also be able to see CNG Station nearby. This application will be available through invitation initially for ten days and would be available for download from January 1, 2019. The technology platform-Social CRM will address customer queries, complaints, service requests, grievances on various social media platforms, such as facebook, twitter and Instagram. This can be used to effectively view and monitor the grievance redressal process by using the sentiment analysis. Pradhan also said that Rs 70,000 crore is being invested in the CGD (city gas distribution) network in the country. On this occasion the IGL also marked the crossing of one million domestic PNG (piped natural gas) customers in its areas of operation i e Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Rewari. The company felicitated the one millionth customer and certain auto drivers selected through lucky draw process. KKS BALDownload The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.