Title
Court refuses to extend detention of Carlos Ghosn - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/international-business/court-refuses-to-extend-detention-of-carlos-ghosn/articleshow/67186470.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 06:27 IST

Text
Auto titan Carlos Ghosn’s chances of getting out of jail were bolstered after a Japanese court refused a bid by prosecutors to extend his month-long detention, clearing way for lawyers to seek his release on bail. The Tokyo district court on Thursday dismissed an appeal by Japanese prosecutors to prolong the 64-year-old former Nissan Motor chairman’s imprisonment. Lawyers for Ghosn, who was arrested November 19 and later indicted for under-reporting his income, can now seek his freedom before the highprofile case goes on trial.


The investigators challenged an initial court decision against his release and lost. They may now appeal to the Supreme Court to keep Ghosn in custody for a further 10 days. Under Japanese rules, Ghosn’s lawyers can now request bail once prosecutors indict him again. Ghosn’s lawyers said they’ll apply for his release and if the request is approved, the car executive could be out as soon as Friday.

The arrest of the high-flying executive has rocked the world’s biggest auto alliance, raising questions over whether the decades-long partnership between Nissan and Renault will survive his downfall. Ghosn was indicted on Dec. 10 for understating his income from Nissan by 4.8 billion yen ($43 million) in the five years to March 2015.

He was re-arrested for understating compensation for three-year period up to March this year. Since Ghosn’s arrest at a Tokyo airport, prosecutors have repeatedly extended his detention. On Thursday, the court rejected an appeal to extend the detention of Ghosn aide Greg Kelly, who was arrested at the same time over his alleged role in helping the executive understate his pay. Kelly’s lawyers plan to file for bail Thursday or Friday, Kyodo reported.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.