Title
TOI impact: DGCA inspector, who turned test flight into 'spirited' joyride for relatives, resigns - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/toi-impact-dgca-inspector-who-turned-test-flight-into-spirited-joyride-for-relatives-resigns/articleshow/67160623.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 19:17 IST

Text
MUMBAI: Capt Pankaj Anand, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) inspector whose wife and sister-in-law took a joyride on board a charter flight where he flew as an examiner, has resigned. 


Capt Anand, a deputy chief flight operations inspector (DyCFOI) with the 

  DGCA had carried out an "examiner release check"
 + on two pilots of a Delhi-based charter company, even as in the passenger cabin his family members partied with the director of the said charter company and his wife. The DGCA initiated an investigation into the incident after the Times of India carried a report on December 11, exposing the happenings on board the Delhi-Amritsar-Delhi flight, along with a photograph that showed the women in aircraft passenger cabin holding bottles of wine. Alcohol consumption is banned by the DGCA on domestic flights.




DGCA inspector turns test flight into ‘spirited’ joyride for relativesThe blatant nexus between DGCA officials and aircraft operators was on show as the wife of the charter company’s director subsequently posted photographs of the joyride on her private Instagram account.


"Capt Anand was forced to resign. He was reluctant to put in his papers, he argued that other DGCA officials too have taken favours from charter aircraft operators in the past. But the director-general of civil aviation stood his ground," said the DGCA source. Capt Anand was on leave when he received a call from the director general on Monday demanding that he resign, the source said. "He vacated his DGCA office today afternoon," the source added. A DyCFOI is second only to the chief flight operations inspector in the flight standard directorate of the DGCA.

The said "irregular check" took place on December 4, on board a Pilatus aircraft operated by Delhi-based aircraft charter company Air Charter Services Ltd. The flight was operated to allow the two pilots employed with this charter company to clear their "examiner release check" which was carried out by the DGCA DyCFOI, Capt Anand.

A copy of the passenger manifest for the Delhi-Amritsar and Amritsar-Delhi flight showed that on board along with Capt Anand was his wife Priti Anand, his sister-in-law, Sharika Anand. They were hosted by the Semoun Jolly, director of the said charter company and Dipti Jolly, his wife. Photographs showing the passengers posing with wine bottles during the return leg was posted on a restricted social media account by Dipti Jolly. Following the flight, Capt Anand had cleared the two pilots to be designated as examiners. 

In their new role as examiners, these two pilots of ACS can now carry out skill tests on commanders, co-pilots certified on Pilatus, impart training, carry out final simulator check etc. ACS, the said charter company doesn’t have an accident-free record. In May 2011, ten people were killed after a Pilatus PC12 belonging to ACS met with an accident in Faridabad, Haryana while operating a Patna to Delhi flight. In March 2017, another Pilatus PC 12 belonging to the same company crashed during a Delhi-Bangkok flight, killing the pilot and leaving several others injured. 

Sources from the DGCA said that in course of the investigation, Capt Anand's defense was that his wife paid for the seat on board the said check flight. "The issue is whether the payment was credited into the charter company's account before the December 4 flight or was it manipulated later. Will Capt Anand claim that he paid it all in cash? Or issued the company a cheque? Can he prove it isn't a back dated cheque?," the source said.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.