Title
Ek Diwali Rangon Wali Aur Doosri Diwali VTP ke Rangeele Offers Wali! - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/ek-diwali-rangon-wali-aur-doosri-diwali-vtp-ke-rangeele-offers-wali/articleshow/66838177.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Nov 28, 2018, 09:33 IST

Text
There is nothing better than a good bargain, especially when you are looking for the perfect property. As the economic condition becomes alarming and the property rates wane, those interested in buying homes and commercial spaces are still looking for those extra perks, especially during the festive time. But it's that time of the year again. The time when the festive buzz is over and so is the deals & offers everywhere. 

We all look for more reasons to prolong celebrations in India. And while it is hard to find a greater joy than discounts, be it in any season or without any reason, it is the little moments that we still want you to relish. The wait is over, join us in the celebration of Doosri Diwali, VTP Wali. 


Are You Ready For "Ek Diwali Rangon Wali Aur Doosri Diwali VTP ke Rangeele Offers Wali." 




VTP Realty brings the extended festive celebrations, exclusively for you. All the Puneites, it's time to celebrate Doosri Diwali again. Let the crackling festive discounts on a great range of projects across Pune delight you. 
While every location has become a celebration with VTP, you can relish 1,2 & 3 bedroom homes & commercial spaces from Rs. 19 Lakh to Rs. 1.9 Crore in Wagholi-Kesnand Rd., Kharadi, NIBM, Undri, Baner-Pashan Link Rd., Dange Chowk, Wakad, Chinchwad, Talegaon. 

That's not it! Offers like GST discounts, no pre-EMI, no floor-rise charges and minimal booking amount are waiting for you. Additionally, complimentary white goods, iPhone on Booking, Gold vouchers and electronic goods vouchers are the lucrative deals you get on some of the most sought-after properties in the city.

 Need more reasons to extend your Diwali festivities. We guess not! 


"Ek Diwali jo Duniya manaaye, Doosri Diwali jo aapki dunia sajaye, aa gai hai".



Why choose VTP Realty? 

VTP Realty is one of the biggest real estate players in Pune with a rich experience of doing business for decades. It is popular for building world-class commercial & residential spaces in premium, middle-income and affordable segments, catering to each class of society. Backed by the 30-year-old VTP Group, which is best known for supplying best quality raw materials; steel & cement in Maharashtra and successfully constructing close to 100 projects for reputed real estate developers, Government agencies, and infrastructure companies across the country. 

VTP group also boasts many other flagship brands under its umbrella including VTP Ventures, VTP Rairah Foods, Viraj Projects and VTP Material catering to various businesses and customers. 
With its presence across all prime locales in Pune, the company promises high-quality and maximum value for investment to its customers. 
Standing tall with its three-pillar principle of Better Design, Better Build and Better Care, VTP is creating enriching lifestyles with spaces you'd love to flaunt. 

Led from the front by Mr. Sachin Bhandari, the company has achieved several milestones under his leadership. CRM (Customer relationship management) and After-Sales service is a priority for VTP. The company further improvises its customers' experience by funding and organizing community-building initiatives and society's cultural events, bringing people together and during the first 6 months. They are also very active in quickly responding and remedying any snagging issues that occur, post possession of the property. 

Space design and through planning is deployed before launching any project. VTP Realty has created the concept of MLA (Maximum Livable Area) Homes which have zero wastage of space wherein the customer pays only for the area that he will use. Quality of construction is another focus area for VTP backed with the latest technology and construction methods used for faster execution without compromising on the quality. 

VTP Realty ensures highest quality building material usage and quality standards as they have their own group companies like Viraj Infrastructure (Executed large-scale contracts for clients like Panchshil, Suzlon, Thermax, JSW Steel, Brigade Group etc.), VTP Materials and VTP Realty who ensure highest quality building material usage and quality standards. 



 Hence a VTP product, whether it's an office, a showroom, or an apartment, is a great buy at a great location and appropriate price. And the Doosri Diwali Offers are even better than the Real ones and available only for a limited time. Time to sweeten the 'After Party' with VTP Realty.


This is a sponsored brand story by VTP Realty and the liability for the same solely rests with them. The content has not been created, verified or edited by Times Internet Limited or Times Group.TO PUBLISH YOUR BRAND STORY OR TO FOLLOW BRANDS, VISIT 
                      BRANDWIRE.IN
                
                    .brandwire_txt{color: #000; font-size: 14px; margin: 0 0 12px 0;}
                    .brandwire_txt a{color: #0372c3;}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer{background: #f7f7f7; border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 15px; font-size: 14px; color: #555; line-height: 18px; margin: 10px 0 0 0; clear: both}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer a{color: #555;}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer p{font-family: proxima-semibold; margin: 10px 0 0; color: #000; font-size: 14px; }
                    .brandwire_disclaimer p a{color: #0372c3; display: inline; font-size: 14px;}
                Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.