Title
Vedanta chairman: ‘Government must realise making money no sin’ - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/government-must-realise-making-money-no-sin/articleshow/67140495.cms

Date & Time
Dec 18, 2018, 11:58 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Vedanta group chairman Anil Agarwal says the government should give more priority to ensuring policy and regulatory certainty. He tells TOI that the government should open up mining faster and make PSUs autonomous. Edited excerpts:



There was a setback for you in Tuticorin and mining business in Goa is suffering from uncertainty. You were told that you will have the right to acquire the remaining government stake in Hindustan Zinc and Balco, which has not happened after so many years. Is there enough certainty of policy in India?

Before you start (business), you are putting (them) on crutches. It will take a couple of years to come back to the same level of production. Whatever happens, production should not stop. Three lakh people are suffering due to what happened in Goa. It wasn’t a problem that could not be solved. The government has to put these things on top priority — may be it is priority number 20, how can you make it number 2? We have to show to the world that we are a strong government and we will not allow any vested interest to interfere in our progress.


These are policy issues, which have not been addressed…

The government must realise that making money should not be a sin. All over the world, people make money, companies make money and re-invest. If you see any democratic country, no government runs business. Every government said the government has no business being in business. That’s true — it should remain on the top, collect revenue, make sure governance is followed and regulators do proper regulation. It does not mean you give business to Anil Agarwal, it should be the way L&T and HDFC Bank are run. The way GE, Exxon and BP are running, our public sector can run with autonomy, owned by the shareholder, with a condition you cannot retrench people.


When this government came to power, it promised certainty of regulations and things like disinvestment but things haven’t fully worked out that way. Did you expect more?

Definitely, I expect more. But what they have done with GST is fantastic. It has delivered on IBC — people used to take money from banks, and not repay, that is gone.


Which are the areas where more should be done?

How they can increase production of public sector is very important. Coal mining, iron ore, bauxite mining should be given to private people. It’s not that they do not want to, it has not taken shape.


Why is your group always under scrutiny?

I don’t think that is the case. In fact, we are the biggest tax payer. As far as we are concerned, we are very law abiding people.


Then, why do people keep raising protest flags?

We are the only people who are in natural resources. We are the only people who are advising against imports all the time. We have received several awards for environment. We are worldwide and everybody likes to invest with us.


What is your strategy going to be as a group?

We are in five businesses — oil and gas, aluminium, zinc, copper, iron and steel. We are going to invest about Rs 60,000 crore to double capacity. Our revenue will increase from $16 billion to $25-26 billion. We expect each business to contribute equally.


Are you looking at acquiring more companies through the IBC route?

Our hands are full but we will look at it if any good opportunity comes. If the government undertakes any privatization or anything comes, we’ll look at it.

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.