Title
'India very price sensitive market, hiking fares leads to losing flyers to other carriers' - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/india-very-price-sensitive-market-hiking-fares-leads-to-losing-flyers-to-other-carriers/articleshow/67164775.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 21:13 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Indian Airlines are witnessing “profit-less” growth with fares being 10-15% below break-even levels. And the market is so price-sensitive that if one airline tries to hike fares by even Rs 200, the demand immediately shifts to “cheaper” options and the former’s losses would mount due to fall in sales caused by its raising ticket price!


This was how Dinesh Keskar, Boeing’s senior VP (Asia Pacific & India Sales), diagnosed the situation of Indian airlines — many of whom are struggling to survive — while giving the US aircraft major’s 20-year “commercial market outlook” (CMO) here on Wednesday. “India is the world’s fastest-growing aviation market and has seen 50 consecutive months of double-digit growth. The country will need 2,300 new planes worth $320 billion over the next two decades, of which 1,940 will be single-aisle, 350 wide body and 10 regional jets (that does not include below 60-seater turboprops),” Keskar said.

However, despite the growth, Indian carriers are far from being profitable with even consistently money-making low-cost IndiGo declaring a big loss in the last quarter. Keskar attributed this to high costs due to expensive fuel prices and the recent depreciation of the rupee vis-a-vis the dollar. On the other hand, fares charged by Indian carriers do not reflect the high costs.

“Mumbai-Delhi one-way fare is about $45-50. Similar distance San Francisco-Seattle route fares is 3-4 times higher. That is why airlines in the US and Europe are profitable. In India, fares are 10-15% lower than break even levels. I asked airlines why don’t they shed some growth by hiking fares to recover costs. They showed in real time that hiking fares by even Rs 200 meant losing prospective travellers to other cheaper airlines. Unless airlines as a whole have pricing discipline, it is not possible for a single airline to recover fares that cover costs as India is a very price sensitive market,” Keskar, who knows the India market very well, said.

Giving an example, he said his rich and prosperous Indian professional acquaintances in the US often tell him that they bought their return ticket to India at $970 and later the fares fell to $950. “They ask me if I can help them get their $970-ticket cancelled so that they can buy the $20 cheaper one. This is how price sensitive we are,” he said.

Rating agency ICRA recently said the three listed Indian carriers — Jet Airways, IndiGo and SpiceJet — lost Rs 20 crore per day in April-September, 2018, period. Collectively, Indian Airlines are likely to lose over Rs 8,800 crore in FY 2019, ICRA had estimated.
While the industry is in deep red, Indian low-cost carriers now dominate the market. “64% or two-thirds of air travel in India is on the low-cost carriers. The budget airlines are looking at one-stop medium to long routes. Our Boeing 737Max, that Jet and SpiceJet have on order, allows them to fly up to Cairo, Istanbul, Moscow, Tokyo, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur due to its increased range,” he added.



Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.