Title
income tax: How to avoid tax saving traps: Things to know - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/tax-saving-traps-to-watch-out-for/articleshow/67124108.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 17, 2018, 16:27 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Looking for a tax-saving option? How about a plan that gives you tax savings, provides tax-free income at regular intervals and gives a big lump sum on maturity? Plus, you also get life cover.



Sounds good? At first glance, a plan from a large life insurance company certainly appears lucrative. But the reality dawns once you analyse the numbers in detail. However, despite poor returns, lakhs of money-back policies and endowment plans get sold during the tax planning season every year. This is because the average investor neither has the time or the inclination to go into the finer details of the policy. Prodded by his employer to show investment proof by the deadline and impressed by the rosy picture drawn by the insurance salesperson, he just wants to get it over with.



Why you may need an adviserSome of us are very enamored by the markets, and find the process of investing very stimulating. Some have a great skill in execution, and find it easy to follow through and complete planned investment decisions. Some are in charge of money and find the costs of outsourcing painful. DIY is suitable in such cases. 



The result? A lot of heartburn and complaints. It is also not surprising that most complaints received by the insurance ombudsman relate to misselling.

This story looks at some of the traps laid out by wealth managers and bank executives to trick taxpayers into unsuitable investments. Read on to know how you can avoid getting trapped.


What they say

“This plan is just like an ELSS fund, but also provides life insurance cover.”


What they hide

“It is a Ulip and the life cover is not free. You will be charged for it.”

This is the favourite line of bank executives when asked for a tax-saving option. Investors have now woken up to the benefits of equity investing. But if you buy an ELSS fund, the bank gets a very small commission. So they lure you with talk of free insurance cover with mutual fund. This insurance is not free though, and comes with mortality charges. A Ulip plan requires a multi-year commitment and exiting in a few years will also mean surrender charges. Unlike a Ulip plan, investors in ELSS funds are also not compelled to remain invested for the long term.


What they say

“This scheme is launched by the bank and therefore, is very safe and reliable.”


What they hide

“It is a life insurance policy from a company promoted by the bank.”

Banks, especially PSU entities, enjoy a lot of trust among their customers. They play on this trust by bombarding customers with SMSs about lucrative savings plans that can cut tax, which are in fact insurance policies from a company in which the bank is just a promoter. In most cases, the buyer realises that he has been trapped much later when the policy is already in operation and cannot be terminated without suffering a heavy loss.


What they say
“Investing in NPS is complicated. This pension plan is much better.”


What they hide

“Pension plans from insurers have much higher charges than the low-cost NPS.”

If you ask any bank executive about the NPS, be prepared to get a blank look. It’s been almost 10 years since the pension scheme was thrown open to the general public, but wealth managers and relationship managers in banks have little knowledge how it works and how one can start investing in it. Even if they know the process, nobody wants to promote the low-cost NPS. The pension scheme offers an ultra-thin commission to the intermediary. Instead, most bank executives will push pension plans from insurance companies. And not without a reason. These regular pension plans have much higher costs than what you pay when you invest in the NPS. Even their online versions, which should not have a high cost structure, have significantly higher charges than the NPS funds. One plan, for instance, has an “investment guarantee fee” in addition to the fund management charge.


What they say

“This plan is just like a fixed deposit but gives taxfree returns and insurance cover.”


What they hide

“It is an endowment insurance policy and the returns will be very low.”

Many taxpayers, especially senior citizens, do not want to lock up their money for the long term. They prefer tax-saving fixed deposits because they are very safe and have a lock-in period of five years. But the interest is fully taxable at the marginal rate applicable to the investor. In the 30% tax bracket, this brings down the post-tax return close to 5%. Relationship managers exploit this poor tax efficiency of fixed deposits to offer taxpayers an investment option with “tax free returns”. This is actually an endowment insurance policy. The taxpayer is given the impression that he is investing in a fixed deposit whereas he gets trapped in a multi-year premium commitment. The worst hit are older taxpayers who don’t have enough liquidity to pay the premium every year. At one time this had become such a big problem for senior citizens that the insurance regulator changed the rules. Many endowment policies now have an upper age limit of 50 years.


What they say
“Invest in ELSS to save tax and gain from the rise in the stock market.”


What they hide

“ELSS funds are market linked. It is not advisable to put a large sum at one go.”

ELSS funds are undoubtedly one of the best ways to save tax. Apart from saving tax under Section 80C, the taxpayer is able to create wealth by investing in these equity funds. The ELSS category has delivered annualised returns of 16.5% in the past five years, making them the highest wealth creator among all tax-saving instruments. The 10-year annualised return is even higher at 17.5%. At the same time, it is not advisable to invest a large sum in equity funds at one go. The best way is to start an SIP of Rs 5,000-10,000 at the beginning of the financial year so that the ups and downs in the market get absorbed over time. But wealth managers will not tell you this when you ask them for a tax saving option. They want you to invest at one go so that there is no possibility of you stopping the investment or changing the fund after 3-4 SIPs.


How to avoid getting trapped

These simple measures can prevent mis-sellers from pushing investments you don’t need:


No verbal promises

Never believe a plan or offer till you see it in black and white. Make sure the brochure shown to you is authorised and is not some promotional material. Check credentials of the seller. All claims must be in writing and signed on the paper


Don’t buy in a hurry

Anybody who pushes you to invest within a deadline is probably misselling. Don’t close the deal in the first or second meeting, ask for at least 7-10 days to study the plan. Tell the distributor you will compare it with other investment options


Second opinion

Discuss the plan with a friend or relative who is an expert. The worst misselling happens at banks, where relationship managers push high commission products. Go to a financial planner, who charges a fee, but gives objective advice


Do your paperwork

Mis-sellers succeed when the investor are pressed for time. Most of the time the buyer just signs on the application form and leaves the paperwork to the agent. Let him fill the form for you but insist on seeing it before you put your signature on it


Use free look period

If the policy document does not mention the promised benefits, return the policy within the 15-day free look period. Agents try and buy time. The policy document should reach you within 2-3 days of issuance

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.