Title
Business highlights - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/business-highlights/articleshow/67196518.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 19:23 IST

Text
New Delhi, Dec 21 () Following are the business highlights at 1915 hours: DEL31 BIZ-LSQ-PETROL New Delhi: Petrol will cost only Rs 34.04 per cent per litre and diesel Rs 38.67/litre without taxes and dealer's commission in the national capital.  DEL45 BIZ-BANK-LD STRIKE New Delhi: Nation-wide strike Friday by a union of public sector bank officers, demanding immediate wage revision, partially impacted banking operations across the country.  DEL42 BIZ-RUPEE-CLOSE Mumbai: Snapping its four-day rising streak, the rupee Friday fell by 48 paise to close at 70.18 against the US currency due to month-end dollar demand and sharp losses in domestic equities.  DEL34 BIZ-LD STOCKS-CLOSE Mumbai: Benchmark equity indices witnessed heavy selloff Friday after investors booked profits in realty, banking, IT and auto bluechips amid weak signals from global markets.  BCM6 BIZ-NCLT-ILFS Mumbai: The corporate affairs ministry Thursday moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking to reopen the books of IL&FS Group and its subsidiaries for the past five years under Section 130 of the Companies Act, to ascertain financial mismanagement.  DCM14 BIZ-MERGER-BANKS New Delhi: Public sector lender Bank of Baroda Friday said the 'Alternative Mechanism' of the finance ministry has accorded in-principle approval for its merger with Dena and Vijaya Bank. DCM13 BIZ-PRABHU-APPLE New Delhi: Commerce and Industry Minister Suresh Prabhu said Friday he will be meeting top leadership of US-based iPhone maker Apple in Davos next month to discuss their plan about setting up manufacturing facilities in India.  DCM12 BIZ-PRABHU-ECOMMERCE New Delhi: The new draft e-commerce policy would focus on several areas including promotion of transparency in pricing and discounts, and protection of interests of both retailers as well as consumers, Commerce and Industry Minister Suresh Prabhu said Friday.  DCM6 BIZ-AIRTEL-ERICSSON New Delhi: Telecom operator Bharti Airtel and Swedish telecom gear maker Ericsson on Friday claimed to have achieved broadband download speed of 500 Megabits per second (Mbps) on smartphones during live trial of a new technology.   DCM3 BIZ-NDTV-DEAL New Delhi: Media firm NDTV group's digital arm NDTV Convergence Friday said it has signed a five-year deal worth over Rs 300 crore with content recommendations engine Taboola.  DEL17 BIZ-BULLION-CLOSE New Delhi: Rising for the second day, gold prices Friday jumped Rs 230 to close at Rs 32,230 per 10 gm at the bullion market in the national capital, on the back of increased demand from local jewellers amid positive global trend.  DCM24 BIZ-PRADHAN-INTER CITY-BUS New Delhi: Delhi Transport Corporation will start inter-state services, with buses using CNG as fuel from February on pilot basis to develop green corridor around the national capital.   SHW SHWDownload The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.