Title
Farm loan waiver: Why economy will have 'sleepless' nights - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/farm-loan-waiver-why-economy-will-have-sleepless-nights/articleshow/67158079.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 19, 2018, 22:02 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: In a country where 93% of Indians are sleep deprived — sleeping for less than 8 hours a day — Congress President 

  Rahul Gandhi's threat
 + to not let Prime Minister Narendra Modi sleep till farm loans are written off, may or may not impact the PM's REM pattern but will surely cause 'sleepless' nights and days for the economy.



Like a flu: Following the decision in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh by their respective chief ministers Kamal Nath and Bhupesh Baghel to waive farm loans, of up to Rs 2 lakh in MP and Rs 6,100 crore for 16 lakh farmers in Chhattisgarh, Assam has also clambered onto the waive-wagon, announcing its decision to write off Rs 600 crore of farmers' loans, which will benefit 8 lakh farmers. Today, Rajasthan became the fourth state this week to write off farm loans.



Why income support, not farm loan waiver, may be better for allThe RBI in a report had said that debt waivers can deflect the state from its fiscal consolidation path. "An Income Support Scheme for small and marginal farmers might turn out be a viable solution,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic advisor, SBI.








Damn the economy: The RBI, in a report on state finances in July, had cautioned against the propensity of waiving loans as they were increasing the fiscal deficits of the states, which were facing a double whammy of lower GST revenues — there has been an increase of 0.05% in the fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP, from 0.27% to 0.32% in the last financial year. This was, in fact, the second time the RBI red-flagged farm loan waivers — it had also earlier done so in 2017. Given the proximity to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, there are valid fears that the waiver mania may result in fiscal deficit touching 2% of the GDP.






When loan waiver hype meets the farm realityFormulas to waive farm loans are not uniform across states. Rajasthan, for instance, calculates waivers based on the amount of crop damaged, size of land holdings and harvest volume. Others have fixed limits for the amount to be waived. Many farmers across India who TOI spoke to said the hastily put together and poorly executed approach will not solve systemic problems.



Self-inflicted wound: Farm loan waivers have also resulted in a spike in banks' NPAs, in the agricultural sector as well as pushing the farmers into borrowing from money lenders at an exorbitant interest rate — that's because banks become wary of lending to farmers fearing loan write-offs by the government, which reduces sources of credit for the farmers who are then forced into borrowings from informal sources of finance.



10 reasons why farmers are in distressTwo successive years of drought (2014, 2015) have taken a toll on the farm sector. The government has allocated significant funds for the sector but slow implementation of projects has not eased the pain. 



Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.