Title
NULIFE, India's world-class Resort Residences for Seniors at Kamshet – Lonavala, Designed by world-renowned architect's, Perkins Eastman, USA. - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/nulife-indias-world-class-resort-residences-for-seniors-atkamshet-lonavala-designed-by-world-renowned-architectsperkins-eastman-usa-/articleshow/66877782.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Nov 30, 2018, 18:27 IST

Text
Senior Living Homes, a need whose time has arrived in India
 Diving deep into statistics about the senior living sector in India, shows promise of significant growth in the near future. Acquainting with the numbers, it is found that nearly 100 million seniors have a wide range of requirements and concerns on a daily basis. Tackling issues like healthcare, socialization, tiring travels, completing day-to-day chores along with dealing with increasing issues with safety and urban crime, are several 
senior living houses that cater towards the fulfilment of all these concerns. Evidently, such initiations have become the need of the hour for senior living communities and this idea is not at all being neglected by our nation.



 Following the findings of the extensive research, Gagan Properties has shaped their vision into existence, hence calling it 
NULIFE. 

 Nulife's major advantage is its proximity to major cities like Mumbai & Pune. Located in the hill station like destination Kamshet, Nulife offers seamless connectivity being just 2hr 25 min drive from the Mumbai International Airport. The project is 1.5 km from Kamshet Railway Station, while Lonavala station (18 km) is a convenient stopover for most passing trains. 

In addition, Gagan Properties has provided a complimentary shuttle bus service to destination within a 20 km radius of the project. The Pune Airport is just 50 km from the location. 


Active living - A lively voyage! 





 Each day dawning over the beautiful premise of 
NULIFE is laden with parcels of fresh energy and enthusiasm. The residents here wake up to a soothing aura - a scenic view amidst mountains. The soothing weather coupled with beautiful panoramic views intertwine to make it an almost hill station like location. 


NULIFE residents define their own dynamic lifestyle through various recreation and leisure facilities meticulously planned in the campus. The world class facilities include a wellness Center, fitness Club (gym) yoga hall, meditation room, amphitheatre and hobby gardens. Reinvent yourself every morning! 
(
www.gagannulife.com/nu-wellness?cstm_ppc_channel=TimesNative) 


 Socialization - It's a place to fulfil ambitions and long cherished dreams. Explore a new world with Gagan Nulife!

 The product of meeting new people is an interesting activity, regardless of how old you are. Nulife ensures a relaxing and refreshing life by offering a geographical appeasement namely Nucampus - stretched across 1 lac sq.ft. of recreational and community, this is a commonplace that allows all seniors to revisit their much-cherished college days once again with newer friends who shall remain for life. 

Freedom, enjoyment, friendships and fun is what Gagan 
Nulife is all about! As a result, residents spend each day engaged and content. Many self-enriching venues like a library, art & craft studio, auditorium, conference hall, beauty salon and spa, community dining hall, swimming pool, indoor games and many more available. (details 
 www.gagannulife.com/nu-lifestyle?cstm_ppc_channel=TimesNative)

They provide a harmoniously empowering lifestyle for their residents and a peace of mind for their families which is truly priceless. 


Recreation - It's your freedom from dull routine. 




 Becoming a 
Nulife resident is the new status quo. While establishing their new identity, each resident also defines and choose their own dynamic lifestyle. 

Residents live to the fullest by engaging in their choice of enjoyable activities which are carefully selected and designed keeping their preferences in mind. They can choose from an array of wellness and fitness programs, educational classes, social and cultural outings, games, special entertainment on festivals and much more. The list of possibilities is endless. 

The prescription for Healthy Aging and a Fuller Life Wellness is at the core of Nulife's service commitment which results in healthy aging while enhancing the quality of life and overall well-being of theresidents. Growing old is strictly prohibited here! 

At Nulife, resident wellness means opportunities for staying physically fit and socially active, continuing to learn and discover new things to enjoy; maintaining emotional and spiritual balance and feeling connected to community, friends and loved ones. 

(Visit: 
http://gagannulife.com/nu-premises.php?cstm_ppc_channel=TimesNative)


Healthcare and Security - Your lives are precious! 




Tender lives are accommodated at Nulife; therefore, their protection must also be top-notch. The association with a renowned hospital equipped with an ICU to be present inside the complex with dedicated doctors, nurses and a resourceful pharmacy. 

Other Nucare facilities included in the apartment price are 24 x 7 ambulance service, periodical preventive medical check-up, routine Physiotherapy, daily housekeeping, weekly laundry services and CCTV surveillance. 

NULIFE believes in delivering every service with utmost care and responsibility. So when it comes to medical services and residential assistance to elder seniors, we entrust it to best of professionals from relevant fields. www.gagannulife.com/sterlingcare?cstm_ppc_channel=TimesNative 


Design and Details - The sculpture that inspired many! 


Nuilfe is a beautiful concept. But the beauty doesn't end on an intangible note. From large doorways, no-step entries and wider corridors to panic alarm system throughout the flat, grab bars in washrooms and anti-skid flooring, this project has been created by the globally renowned architect Perkins Eastman who has graced the construction of Nulife with their sensitive vision, keeping in mind the residents that will be accommodated. All amenity spaces are located in the community building, nucampus. This allows all residents convenient access to all amenities in one building, expanding useable activity space to outdoors and increasing contact with nature. 


Perseverance and skill - The Team!

The vision of Gagan Properties, based in Pune, 
Nulife is a by-product of the best experiences procured out of 21 years' worth real estate experience; a brand that is receptive to innovation and customer satisfaction on progressive levels within the real estate sector. Having delivered more than 5500 apartments to satisfied clients and having more than 6 million sq. ft. currently under construction the credibility of this project reaches roof-ripping levels of authentic comfort and style for all our beloved elder ones. 

The first phase of Nulife project is ready for grabs as families are already residing there, with 1 and 2 BHK apartments already being quoted with a starting price of just 49.99 INR Lacs for Phase II Under construction and 79.99 Lacs INR for ready possession 2 BHK in Phase I, is a worthwhile investment. 

Especially, when Nulife has such impeccable service offerings including power backup for all common areas and lifts, common area maintenance, shared shuttle, concierge services, E-kart movement in the premises, exterior building maintenance, Nurse on call 24x7, weekly laundry, daily housekeeping, amenity & recreation building, ambulance on standby, periodical medical check-ups, weekly physiotherapy, trained security, staff and surveillance. 

All the above have been incorporated in the apartment cost and will be taken care by Gagan Nulife for upto 15 years. 

 Gagan 
Nulife introduces itself as a new way of aspiration for senior citizens in India and is destined to change the senior living scenario on a scale that is nationwide. If this is what you have been dreaming to enter existence, then hurry up and contact Nulife! 

We believe, it is not enough for our residents to add new years to their life. We are inspired to add new life to those years. 

For more information on Gagan Nulife call 9372305656, or visit 
http://gagannulife.com/?cstm_ppc_channel=TimesNative.



 This ultra-modern initiation is a world-class resort residence provision for the senior citizens of our nation. Sprawling across 14 acres of holistic goodness, it can rightfully be entitled as a practical hyperbole of comfort for the senior-living concept, owing to its adherence with international standards that are exhibited proudly at Kamshet, near Lonavala. Justified with a dynamic tagline that reads ' GROW YOUNG ', Nulife is that place where seniors can age gracefully while living amidst the raw elements of nature where they are constantly socializing with pleasant weather and an unpolluted environment.

NULIFE is truly breathing in NEW LIFE for it's Residents. 


RERA NO - PHASE 2 - P52100002941 




This is a sponsored brand story by Gagan Nulife and the liability for the same solely rests with them. The content has not been created, verified or edited by Times Internet Limited or Times Group.TO PUBLISH YOUR BRAND STORY OR TO FOLLOW BRANDS, VISIT 
                      BRANDWIRE.IN
                
                    .brandwire_txt{color: #000; font-size: 14px; margin: 0 0 12px 0;}
                    .brandwire_txt a{color: #0372c3;}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer{background: #f7f7f7; border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 15px; font-size: 14px; color: #555; line-height: 18px; margin: 10px 0 0 0; clear: both}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer a{color: #555;}
                    .brandwire_disclaimer p{font-family: proxima-semibold; margin: 10px 0 0; color: #000; font-size: 14px; }
                    .brandwire_disclaimer p a{color: #0372c3; display: inline; font-size: 14px;}
                Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.