Title
ABB to sell majority in Power Grids unit to Hitachi - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/international-business/abb-to-sell-majority-in-power-grids-unit-to-hitachi/articleshow/67137567.cms

Date & Time
Dec 18, 2018, 07:25 IST

Text
TOKYO/ZURICH: ABB will sell a majority stake in its Power Grids division to Japan's Hitachi and return the proceeds to shareholders, bowing to pressure from an activist investor to sell the business that makes transformers and converters. 

The acquisition, which values the unit at $11 billion, will see Hitachi become one of the largest players in the power grid industry. For ABB, which also makes industrial robots, the deal offloads its least profitable division, allowing it to focus on automation. But the decision to sell the unit marks a U-turn for ABB chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer, who two years ago insisted on keeping the business, despite calls to sell from shareholders, including Swedish activist investor Cevian, which owns 5.3% of ABB. 

"Our shareholders have been with us for many years, they have been patient and have also had perseverance with us to see through the transformation," Spiesshofer said on a call with reporters. "Now, we let them participate in the results of their patience." Cash proceeds of $7.6-7.8 billion from the deal will be returned to shareholders via buybacks or similar means, ABB said. Cevian cofounder Lars Forberg said he was convinced the sale was right way forward for ABB. "Focusing ABB's portfolio on digital industries and further simplifying business creates a better company and a strong basis for long-term growth." Investor AB, ABB's largest investor with 10.7% equity, said it "fully supports" the transaction. 

ABB will retain remainder of Power Grids business, with an option to sell to Hitachi after three years. ABB's Power Grids business employs 36,000 people and had sales of $10.4 billion last year. reuters 


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.