Title
financial planning: Talk money without fights - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/talk-money-without-fights/articleshow/67022155.cms

Date & Time
Dec 10, 2018, 12:49 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: My friends indulge in frequent arguments. It is tough to agree on money matters in a household. Osho would make a beautiful case for why agreement should not be a goal in marriage. However, little everyday decisions and significant life changing ones require joint effort. Even if a consensus cannot be reached between husband and wife, at least the willingness to cooperate is needed. So how can we make decisions about money somewhat less combative?


First, it makes sense to allocate money as his, hers and ours. Except for a few exceptional cases where a common pool of money is easily used without complaint by both parties, earmarking is a good idea. It is much better practice to let the other spend a portion of income freely.

Second, the contribution to the common pool should be based on agreed principles and budgets. A friend used her salary to run the household and pay EMIs, while the husband used his income to save and invest. Unfortunately the marriage ended and she was left to argue in court for her share of assets. It is much better to hold assets jointly.

Third, do not strive for consensus on every little money decision. Identify the triggers for most arguments and sort it out. A friend’s wife was addicted to trading. Since the retired husband was worried about this, they agreed to earmark a specific amount drawn from her VRS proceeds for the purpose. She also agreed to trade within that capital.

Fourth, some couples skip the discussion on money out of pure denial of their monetary status. These households struggle with the social conditioning that the husband should play the superman provider, and the men’s pride does not let them disclose that money is short. Such attitudes can be harmful. Family members should know that money is a limited resource, and making the spending decision a family effort is also a good way to involve children.

Fifth, there is no easy way to arrive at a consensus about where to invest. So, it is helpful to see differences as contributing towards the asset allocation decisions of the family’s wealth, rather than have all investments cater to a specific preference. The household can decide to have its wealth in every kind of asset, from property, gold and FD to stocks and funds, and allocate the management of these assets according to the preferences of the members, annually reviewing the proportions invested in each. The overall wealth should do well with this variety.

Problems in household finances arise from quarrels over opportunity costs. There is no agreeing on issues, identifying them as problem areas and finding ways to manage them can help. Allowing the freedom and space to make decisions within an allocated amount has worked for many couples. Investing the goodwill of relationship in assuaging fears and insecurities is a better approach than struggling to achieve agreement on every decision.

(The author is chairperson of The Centre for Investment Education and Learning)

Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.