Title
IL&FS news: IL&FS to auction road assets worth Rs 25,000-30,000 crore - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/ilfs-to-auction-road-assets-worth-rs-25-30k-cr/articleshow/67136215.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 18, 2018, 11:29 IST

Text
MUMBAI: The break-up and sale of the IL&FS group has gathered pace with the new government-appointed board putting on the block road assets worth Rs 25,000-30,000 crore, which account for almost a third of the group’s liabilities. Expressions of interest have been invited for seven operating annuity projects, eight toll projects and four projects that are under construction and held by IL&FS Transportation Network — a listed subsidiary. In addition to these road projects adding up to over 10,000km, there are three other businesses in the transportation sector.


The seven operating annuity projects include the 9.28km Chenani-Nashri Tunnelway (CNTL), also known as the Patni Top Tunnel, which was inaugurated by the Prime Minister last year and is India’s longest road tunnel. The CNTL project, which has Rs 4,200 crore of term loans and external commercial borrowing, is contractually entitled to receive semi-annuities of Rs 318 crore in September and March every year till the end of the concession period. 

The second-largest project is the Jharkhand Road Project Implementation Company, which is 6.57%-owned by IL&FS and 93.43%-owned by its subsidiary ITNL. It has undertaken and implemented five projects totalling 627-lane km. The other annuity projects include the Maharashtra border to Belgaum, Thiruvananthapuram City Roads, East Hyderabad Expressway, Hazaribaugh Ranchi Expressway, and Jorhat-Shillong Expressway.




The non-road assets and businesses are the EPC (engineering, procurement & construction) and O&M (operation & maintenance) businesses of IL&FS Transportation Networks and a sports complex in Thiruvananthapuram.

This is the third lot of assets put on sale since the new board took charge. Earlier, the board had decided to sell the securities and the renewable energy businesses, which are together estimated to fetch Rs 10,000 crore. The total debt of the IL&FS group is estimated at over Rs 90,000 crore.

Incidentally, private equity investor Lonestar had earlier signed term sheets with IL&FS to pick up select road projects. Lonestar had been planning to pick up a stake in the IL&FS Transport Network but subsequently decided to buy the assets. Later, Cube Highways, backed by global private equity fund I Squared Capital and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), entered the fray. While negotiations with Cube had progressed, the new board decided to start afresh and invite expressions of interest for a more transparent price discovery process.

“Any binding transaction for the sale of assets, as well as the resulting resolution plan(s), will be subject to receipt of all requisite approvals (including the NCLT or where necessary, the high courts) before the transactions are implemented”, the company said in a statement. The IL&FS board, on behalf of the entire IL&FS group, including ITNL, has appointed Arpwood Capital and JM Financial as financial & transaction advisers, along with Alvarez & Marsal as resolution consultants.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest Business News.