Title
Britain calls in army as drones paralyse Gatwick - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/uk/britain-calls-in-army-as-drones-paralyse-gatwick/articleshow/67186275.cms

Date & Time
Dec 21, 2018, 05:56 IST

Text
GATWICK AIRPORT: Britain called in the army on Thursday to help police hunt a drone pilot who grounded all flights from Gatwick airport, leaving thousands stranded on one of the busiest days of the year. 


The airport closed its only runway late Wednesday following "reports of two drones flying in and around the airfield" and further sightings on Thursday, according to Gatwick's CEO Stewart Wingate.

 The closure, which remained in place at 6pm on Thursday (1800 GMT), stranded tens of thousands of travellers days before Christmas - and prompted the unusual military operation. "We will be deploying the armed forces to... deal with the situation with the drones at Gatwick Airport," defence secretary Gavin Williamson told Sky News TV. 

"We are there to assist and do everything we can," he said, declining to give the troops' exact role and adding that it followed a request from local police, who earlier in the day had ruled out any terrorist connection. 

Gatwick, around 50km south of the British capital, is the eighth-busiest airport in Europe and sits behind Mumbai as the world's busiest single runway air hub.

Inbound flights were diverted to other airports while passengers waiting to take off faced gruelling delays as airlines cut services.

 Some 10,000 passengers were affected on Wednesday night, and a further 110,000 who had been due to either take off or land at the airport on 760 flights Thursday. 

Gatwick CEO Wingate said the incident was "a highly targeted activity which has been designed to close the airport and bring maximum disruption in the run up to Christmas".

A cat-and-mouse manhunt is under way to catch those operating the drones, with more than 20 police units and dozens of officers from two local forces deployed. Police said they believed the devices "are of an industrial specification".

British Prime Minister Theresa May said she sympathised with passengers and vowed action.


Download The Times of India News App for Latest World News.