Title
Forget chill over HUAWEI row, Canada a hot draw for Chinese - Times of India

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/china/forget-chill-over-huawei-row-canada-a-hot-draw-for-chinese/articleshow/67187394.cms

Date & Time
Updated: Dec 21, 2018, 09:39 IST

Text
NEW DELHI: At the fag end of 2018, China and Canada find themselves caught in a diplomatic kerfuffle over the arrest at US’ behest of Chinese telecom giant Huawei’s CFO Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver. But away from official power games, the ordinary Chinese traveller has found Canada an inviting destination in recent years and visitors from the country have ignited a boom in Canadian tourism. Here's a look at the numbers and how Canada remains a big favourite for Indians, too.






70,000 CHINESE TOURISTS WENT TO CANADA IN 2018


In 2018, as many as 70,000 Chinese tourists visited Canada. That makes China the second-largest source of visitors to Canada, behind US. On the other hand, UK, which was at the No. 2 spot for three decades, fell to third position. Chinese travellers to Canada have sparked a tourism renaissance in the North American country after a lull that began in the wake of the 9/11 attacks.









‘FOOD AS GOOD AS HONG KONG’
Canada began figuring in Chinese traveller’s holiday plans 8 years back, when Beijing extended its ‘Approved Destination Status’ to Canada. That meant Chinese citizens had permission to travel to the country Industry insiders say Canada is an attractive destination for MICE travel, or the meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions segment Further, big Canadian cities have large Chinese communities. “My clients are surprised that they can eat food here that’s as good as Hong Kong,” a tour operator told Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

NUMBER OF INDIAN VISITORS KEEPS GROWING
India has climbed to 8th from 13 th in 1990 in terms of visitors to Canada. Although India had slid to No.17 in the mid-90s, the country has seen a gradual rise thereafter in people visiting Canada, which has a large Indian diaspora. People of Indian origin make up nearly 4% of Canada’s population.


Source: CBC 

Download The Times of India News App for Latest World News.